104-10170-10059 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO
FROM CANTO DOMINGO

ACTION
INFO
/4 18, ve.

SECRET 13220
DIR WAVE INFO PACY LANT CITE SOOM 3355 (SROCK ACTING)

INTEL 02 02
SUPCATAEM-1. EM-1 HAD SAID ON JULY

THAE FOLCH AND LUNE WERE A.DING CUSAN REBELS.
INDER FOLCH, LUNA. FILED 132248

REPCOT CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM HOC S
DOM CAN REPUBLIC/CJ

SUB SUPPORT OF THE DOMIN CAN AIR FORCE AND NAVY FOR CANE CEERATIONS
IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

DO: EARLY AUGUST 1964

PADA MENICAN REPUBLIC, SANTO DOMINGO (1) AUGUST (4)

AFPR

IN COMMENT.

RELEASING
CATE BASED ON

LIAISON
FOCS FAT EGENCE
SECRE?
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBIT RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TO:

FROM:
ACTION:
INFO: PAGE 2
SOURCE DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL 24
(F) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN MILITARY CIRCLES.

IV COMMENT:

RELE ASING INC DATE DISTRIBUTED. BASED ON

LIAISON
TOCS
PRECEDENCE
Erst
SECRET
REPROCUCT BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 15 PP Copy No.

SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/CUBA TOCS-
DATE OF 1900 DATE:
INFO.
SUBJECT
DANIL CACHING OPERATIO

PLACE & DATE ACQ. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, SANTO 2010
SOURCE 24 FIELD DEPORT NO. 138.25
AND
APPRAISAL DOMINICAL GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL TO EXCELLENT COnet is wic
CIRCUL.
AFFPAIAL: DISTR
5

1. THE CUMIN CAN AIR FORCE AND THE COMIN
NAVY ARE ALLOWING CHAFT MANNED BY CUBAN EXILE,
CACHE ARMS AND OTHER SUPPLIES ON THE DOMINICAN COAT

| AT LAS PENAL AND PUNTA LUNA, SOUTH OF MONTECRI
THE BOATS APRIVE AND DORART QUICKLY, WITH PLAMIC

* FROM THỊ DOKLICAN NAV, TO CACHE THEIR CARTO.
ARMS AND CINER SUPPLIES ARE NOT OF DOMINICAN OF 511..
THE CUBAN LY LES DO NGE PLMAIN ASICPE, BUT LEAVE A
THE CRAFT THAT SHOUGH TECM.

2. AIR FORCE CO. JUAP. 1N. FOLTH PEREL
Tre Ralerts: Cins 'he Nations Deferrex the cod Bretes zis we Burke Bape Lacs File
18. 08.C. Band. The resolution or proof ways
any masser tortard percepci
SECRET
STATING CAA ADMY, ACS NAVY AIR SEC DEF NSA NIK AID USLA CA CHI Cre CC

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTRO
NO FORIES ONS TOCS
OF ME AS FORCE BASE IN SANTIAGO, IN MARGE OF TH S PAGE
OPERATION. (SOURCE COMMENT. IN LARLY JUL. FOLCH AND
GEN, ATILA LUNA WERE REPORTEDLY AIDING FUBAN EXILES,
THE COMERICAN ARMY IS NOT DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN ME CUCAN
EXILE OPERATIONS.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAV AIR CINCSO CONGLANT

SECRET
POEM (END OF MEGAL
2096 CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONIPOIS OMN IN
CONTINUATION OF DCS INFORMATION REPORT 13-29-14-47
