14-00000
SECRET
Date:

Mr. Raymond H. Gerende

Dear Mr. Gerende:

Effective  1oct 55
all contracts written or oral entered into between you and the United States are hereby terminated and in lien thereof the following contract is substituted:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you for the purchase of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the purchase of such information and services, you will be paid an amount calculated at the rate of $3600 per annum. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government.

2. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for authorised operational travel. All expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with Government regulations.

3. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to accounting in compliance with Government regulations.

4. Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall constitute the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems approp- riate.

5. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situated, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U. S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

6. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status.

7. Secrecy. All information related to this agreement conveyed through instructions, this instrument, or otherwise, is secret and shall not be divulged to any person, organization or Government in any form or manner, except as authorized by the representative of the Government executing this agreement.

14-00000
outline and be an immediate and final breach of this agreement and will result in forfeiture by you of any and all benefits which may then have accrued to you by reason of this agreement.

8. Instructions. Instructions received by you from the Government in briefing, training or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein, provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

9. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges of benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the Government.

10. Term. This contract is effective as of 1 October 1955, and shall continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner terminated by the Government either:
(a) By thirty (30) days' actual notice to you from the Government, or

(b) Without prior notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by yous otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be renewed for successive periods of one year once upon notice from the Government accepted by you. Termination of this agreement will not release you from the obligations of any security oath you may be required to take.

