104-10418-10046
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC DISSEM S: 45 PER 1#2(2.0) TOTAL COPIES 14-7 RUN BY
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB
STAFF
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT
ACTION UNIT Z FILE VR DDO 009 C/EUR3 1 4
2/93 2 5
ACTIONA 3 6
NFO
EI A762 EYES ONLY IN 906466
T 8820-04 PAGE 01 20-1
TOR:301935Z APR 76 LOND 72167

SECRET 3616572 APR 76 STAFF
20-1
CITE LONDON 72167
13-20 15-6 15-4
TO: DIRECTOR. JAKARTA INFO (THE HAGUE) (PARIS)
02
RYBAT PLMHBLANKET
REF: LONDON 72122 (SENT ONLY DIRECTOR) (904898)
20-1 13-20 19-6 15-4
1. FUR (JAKARTA, (THE HAGUE (PARIS: REF ADVISED THAT DURING
23 APR CONTACT BETWEEN PHILIP AGEE AND STEPHEN M. WEISSMAN,

WEISSMAN (WHO IN CALIFORNIA) SAID HE HAD FOUND AN ARCHIVES
ON AGENCY MATERIAL WITH A GREAT DEAL OF INFORMATION. HE
MENTIONED INDONESIA AND SAID THAT PAUKER WAS PERSONALLY IDENTI-
FIED AS "UUR" MAN BY CIA, AGEE THEN TOLD WEISSMAN THAT HE COULD
ARRANGE AN INTRODUCTION TO DEWI SUKARNO AT ANY TIME FOR WEISSMAN,
AS WELL AS A JOURNALIST WHO KNEW SUKARNO PERSONALLY.
01
2. JAGUAR WAS SOURCE OF ABOVE INFO. AFTER CHECKING THEIR
RECORDS, ON 29 APR (JAGUAR ADVISED THAT THEY BELIEVE THE
JOURNALIST IN QUESTION TO BE ONE WILLIAM L. OLTMANS OF
AMERBOS 205, AMSTERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS. THEY SHOWED TO US,
THREE LETTERS WHICH HAD BEEN MAILED TOGETHER IN ONE ENVELOPE
POSTMARKED IN THE U.K. ON 9 OCT 75. THE ENVELOPE WAS ADDRESSED
"PHIL AND ANGELA" AND GAVE THEIR CAMBRIDGE ADDRESS. THE LETTERS

ivo station trac
Qatkater) 38502 SECRET P&L DISSEM
18-20 Form 547a Processed RECORD COPY.
13-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY. PER RUN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TI
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBIT

STAFF
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT Z
ACTION UNIT 1 4
RF FILE VR 2 5
ACTION 3 6
NFO

T 882004 EI A762 PAGE 02 IN 906466
20-1
TOR:301935Z APR 76 CLOND 72167

WERE DATED JUL 75, ONE HAVING BEEN SIGNED BY OLTMANS AND THE
OTHER TWO BY DEWI SUKARNO, OLTMANS' LETTER WAS AN EXPRESSION
OF INTEREST IN THE SENATE INVESTIGATIONS AND PARTICULARLY IN ANY
ASPECT REGARDING INDONESIA. OLTMANS CLAIMED TO HAVE KNOWN SUKARNO
QUITE WELL, AND SAID THAT HE HAD HAD SEVERAL DISCUSSIONS WITH SUKARNO
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE CIA AND HOW THE CIA WAS
TRYING TO OUST SUKARNG. DEWI SUKARNO'S TWO LETTERS WERE REQUESTS
FOR INFORMATION ON THE RESULTS OF THE SENATE INVESTIGATION AND
HOPED THAT THE INQUIRIES WOULD SERVE TO CLEAR HER HUSBAND'S NAME.

3. SINCE THE LETTERS WERE ACTUALLY WRITTEN TO SENATOR FRANK
CHURCH AS HEAD OF THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE, JAGUAR FOUND IT
INTERESTING THAT AGEE WOULD BE ABLE TO OBTAIN COPIES OF LETTERS
WRITTEN TO A U.S. SENATOR IN HIS OFFICIAL CAPACITY AS HEAD OF SUCH
A COMMITTEE. WONDERED IF SOMEONE ON THE SENATE COMMITTEE HAD
이
JAGUAR
이
JAGUAR
SENT THE LETTERS TO AGEE, BUT WE FEEL IT POSSIBLE THAT OLTMANS/
SUKARNO GAVE COPIES OF THEIR LETTERS TO PEOPLE IN PARIS WHO GOT
THEM TO AGEE.

4, REQUEST ADDEES TRACES OLTMANS WITH INDICATION OF WHAT MAY
BE PASSED (JAGUAR)
4/PV

5, FILE: 73-6-46/3. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET
