104-10308-10054
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: J (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 10
INFO COP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/E 2, S/C 2

SECRET 2211522
OPIN DIR INFO PRETY HAVE PRAH WAHD ФАТДИХА90 8012
RYBAT TYPIC CALL 22 APR 1963 (N22657)

1. AFLEB 29 MET IN ROTT BY VAREBOLD AND ARLES 1 OF 20 AFR.
WE EXPLAINED THAT HE DID NOT RECRUIT IDEN A AS PLANNED BECAUSE
IDEN B TOLD HIM IDEN A IS NOW BEING WATCHED CLOSELY DUE HIS RECENT
ATTEMPTS TO RESIGN FROM AILITARY. A 29 HAD NO FREE TIME TO GRE
AND FAKE OVU ASSESSMENT IDEN A SITUATION DUE SERIOUS ILLNESS FOTHER
AND HIS REQUIRED PRESENCE ABOARD SHIP DURING REPAIRS

2. TUFO IN REF OBTAINED BY AHLEB 29 FRON IDEN C. REQUEST
TRACES. SHE IS FORMER BIRL FRIEND OF AFLEB 29 AND PARENTS ARE
NEIGHBORS. SHE VERY ACTIVE IN RESISTANCE GROUP WHOSE NARE SOUNDS
LIKE "FRENTE LIBERACION NACIONAL FRENTE LIBERACION ESCAMBRAY.
A 29 SEES HER IN HAVANA EACH TIME HOME ALTHOUGH SHE SPENDS CIRCA
TUO OF EVERY THREE VEEKS WITH GRANDPARENT IN FATANZAS.

3. A 29 CERTAIN IDEN C VOULD ACCEPT RECRUITHENT BY HIM TO
WORK WITH ODYOKE. WARKBOLD SEEING HIN AGAIN EVENING 23 AFR.
REQUEST OPIE PERMISSION PRIOR NEXT MEETING WITH A 29 TO INSTRUCT
HIN TO RECRUIT IDEN C. TRAIN AND GIVE HER SV AND ACCOWNODATION
ADDRESS PREVIOUSLY FLANHED FOR IDEN A.

SECRET

GROUP 1
13-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ACTION: J/SAS (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1035, 22 APR LIG)
INFO DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/E 2, S/C 2

SECRET 2211522
PIE DIR INFO PRITY WAVE FRAN HARS CITE HABU 3695 22 APR 1963 N22624
RYBAT TYPIC CALL. (N22657)
MAGU 3695
IDEN A: ANTONIO CONCEPCION.

IDEN B: RANUEL JUSTO HUINOS, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF ANTONIO
CONCEPCION. SEE PREVIOUS INFO ON KUINOS FROM ANLEB 29.

IDEN C: NORMA FLORES DOB CIRCA 39, RESIDES WITH MOTHER AND
FATHER AT CALLE NO. 18332, ENTRE PRIMERA Y SEGUNDA, RESIDENCIAL
FONTERREY, SAN MIGUEL DEL PADRON, GUARABACOA, HABANA. RESIGNED
FRON JOB AS TEACHER IN UNIVERSITY OF VILLANOVA IN HAVANA IN 62,
MAD PBPRIME VISA PRIOR BLOCKADE BUT BLOCKADE NULLIFIED CHANCE TO
LEAVE. FATHER FORMER SERGEANT IN BATISTA ARMY NOW GARDENER.

SISTER, NANCY FLORES, DOB CIRCA 36, IS OFFICE CLERK IN LA ISLA DE
CUBA DEPARTMENT STORE, HAS APPLIED FOR PBPRIME VISA. GRANDFATHER
AND UNCLE LIVE IN MATARZAS.
SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCI UDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
