14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
201
(104-10219-10066)

TOP SECRET

RE COEL GOVERNMENT BOOK ON MEXICAN PHASE OF
THE
REVOLUTION

FLD INDEX ONLY
HMMA
050-
41636

(13 November 1963 La Havana, Cuba)

UNITED STATES

MEXICO

MEXICO CITY

Manuel Machado (Lioare), G.R., alias, has entered

Information to support publication of those previously published was received, with all material received before 1951.

RE CHECKED:
Verified 2 June 66 by
V. Foar.

[redacted section]

14-000002

SECRET
(When Filled in)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

DOC. SYMBOL & NO. DATE OF DOC. FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY

Memo Draft 13 Sept (72?)

DOC. SUBJECT

Results of Our Survey of Cuban Assets

TEXT C SOURCE CRYPTONYM SOURCE INFORMATION

1. COS Lima did well to raise the question as to what will
happen, vis a vis our operational security, when the Cubans
achieve diplomatic recognition in the various Latin American
countries where this is gradually occuring. The responses
from the Branches indicate that we do have a considerable amount
of operational activity and equity that revolve around our Cuban
assets and that we would do well to begin a gradual cut-back in
our use of Cubans, given the targetting that we presume will be
made on then as the Cuban CI effort begins in the various
countries.

2. However, the solution to our problem should be a gradual
one and keyed initially to where the official Cuban presence is.
and then to those countries where it is coming. Therefore we
start with Peru.
b. GICITRON-4, who has been Treasurer of the 26th
July movement in the period 1957-58 prevides the cover
for LITHGOE.

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First. Middle)

GI CITRON -4 201-

OBSOLETE
FORM 867 PREVIOUS
8-68 EDITIONS (7-46)

SECRET
[14-000003]

MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/FI

SUBJECT

SECRET

: GICITRON-4 15 August 1972

a. GICITRON-4

b. Subject is used by the Bogota Station to provide cover,
status and funds for an operation handled by Errol
R. LITHGOE, also a Cuban, who is nominally Subject's
partner in the business enterprise.

c. Cuban

d. Legitimate businessman who was formerly in Mexico and
now manages a Mexican business firm in Bogota.

e. Resident alien of Colombia.

f. Subject has received no training in clandestine opera-
tions, though he was involved in several clandestine
Cuban activities while treasurer of the 26th of July
Hoverent during 1957-53.

g. Since Subject provides cover for LITHGOE, he is not
required to utilize any tradecraft. Having his own
company provides for adequate cover.

h. Due to his position, Subject is probably well-known in
the Cuban community, but he performs no operational
tasks.

SECRET

[14-000004]

CHIC: DON PICCADE:SVY
T: WH/3/CO
5267/1034
DATE: 7 AUGUST 1922

CADLE SCORETARIAT CISSEMINATION
PERPER

CONF: W18 -240

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 1
KOUTDOG AND CR INITIALE
SECRET

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.
FILE. NR. 19/AN

(data sac breed). (classificarenj..

SECRET CITE DIRECTOR 17picof

• ГЕОБОТА : 298.135 7

1. HOS ATTEMPTING ASSESS THREAT GROWING PBRUMEN DIFLOMATIC
PRESENCE IN HEMISPHERE CRÉATES FOR EKTRUST ENFLOYED FORUMEN ASSETS.-

2. HAS RECORDS SHOU ERROL A. LYTHGOE, REGINALD .M. DACIEK,
GICITRON-4 AND GICITRON-S IN-BOGOTA PLS INDICATE IF STATION HAS
ADDITIONAL PORUMEN ASSETS WE UNAWARE OF, OR OTHERS WHOSE FILES
SHOULD BE REVIEWED.

3. DOES GICITRON-S CONTINUE YORK FOR LYTHGOE ANY CAPACITY?

4. FILE 17-120-21. EX-2、APDIR、WN-SISM.

END OF MESSAGE

HAS COMMENT: BASED ON MEMORANDUM, "SURVEY OF CUBAN EXILE ASSETS"
DATED 25 JULY 1972, C/UH/FI.

Sivi C/UH/FI
More cour
