104-10172-10105 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: GUITART CAMPIZANO, AGUSTIN, DR.
C-737418

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/CA

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE
DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
4:00
10. 9. 78 PAT ORR Phon

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

THIS FOLDER IS NOT TO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF
CI/STAFF. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH THIS FOLDER
MUST NOTIFY CI/OA(5077) IMMEDIATELY IF IT IS
TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN
CI/STAFF SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THE
PROPER PERSON, AND SO THAT THE FOLDER CAN
BE READILY LOCATED AT ANY TIME AS NEEDED.

SECRET PROJECTS CARD MADB
APPROVAL WORK RECORD 18 June 1961
19 June 1963 Jew
GUITART Campizano, Agustin, Dr.
727418 JMATE

DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH
25 April 1910 Cardenas, Cuba
Carl Trettin SAS/OS- 7646

REMARKS DATE COMMENTS
1575855663

Records on Former German Agents Checked
in CVR&I, date: 19 June 1963
NR 19 Nov 63
Nephew of 201-727417

NPR 26 June 63
NDI
NDI

Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans

Coleman - Subject of prior t
* to 00/C. Coordination must
be effected is this fact
NIC - su mimo in S.O.H.

SECRET
CANCELLATION TO DIVISION 13 Jan 1961, Jo

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, SAS/OS

ATTENTION: Carl Trettin

C# 201-727418

The file on GUITART Campuzano, Agustin, Dr is cancelled
and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to
indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational
use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish
a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 691 ODSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIO...

SECRET 14-00000

SECRET
INSTRUCTION SHEET
10 JAN 1964 727418
EXPEDITE AREA COVERET NAME
INDICES SPECIAL CHECK

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST RESULTS F110 Dossier REVIE

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REVIED FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR. DAYS UNTIL REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL SECURITY OFFICE
INTERROGATION FROM

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

FORWARD TO REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
SECURITY OFFICE

CANCEL PER DIVISION WEWO DATED REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
(No notice to Division)

CANCEL PER CIFOR NOTICE TO DIVISION FOR REPORT
(Reason checked below. or see remarks) LCPUTTER REPORT

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
X CANCEL PER CI/OA NOTICE TO DIVISION
(Reason checked below. or see remarks)
FILE
REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES TICKLE

REQUEST FIELD TRACES NOTICE FIR FIRST SECOND FINAL

REQUEST P0A 11 OTHER

POA EXPIRED

PLEASE SUBMIT PRO 11. IF, WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT
HAS BEEN INDICATED, AA BILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

REMARKS FAILURE TO SUBMIT PES 11 AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

13 JAN 1964
CANCELLED
COPY 1S SECURITY

707....... ...............
sl Floard P. Brown
Leonard W. Tate
SECRET

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMURANDUM FOR: Chief, SAS/OS -C. Trettin

NUMBER 201-727418

SUBJECT GUITART Campusano, Agustin
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated
18 June 1963 crm

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject
as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same
authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority
granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is
hased, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is sub-
Ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ
Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six
(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all
investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I
and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-
visions ceases.
Carrol,Je

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 125 125 Posts L...
DATE - 8 JUL 1963
SECRET

SECRET
3 July 1:63 cm
REMORANDUM FORt. Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Support)

SUBJECT So
201727418

ATTACHMENTS (IF ANY):

THOMAS CARROLL, JR.
CHIEF, CI/OA
13/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.

FEI from Jare Roman
SECRET

SECRET 8 JUL 263
INSTRUCTION SHEET 727418
EXPEDITE SET UP FOR P.C.A.
OA SP INQUIRY COY'T N. CH
SP INQUIRY GOV'T N. CH
USE?
AREA:

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST "GREEN LIST"

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST RESULTS STAFF DOSSIER REVIEW

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REVISO STAFFID COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REQUEST RESULTS TECH. SECURITY DIVISION
INTERROGATION FROM OFFICE..

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION REVIES OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE Revita of SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/04

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED. REVIEW OF FOL REPORT AT CI/OA
(No notice to division)

CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division) REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
(See Remarks for reason)

REQUEST RI TRACES FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES NOTICE FIRST SECOND ITMIRD ANCY FINAL

PRO I PRO 11 OPNER

Eurail Brown

P.O.A.

MEMORANDUM FOR:
Notification to the Federal Bureau of Investigation
SUBJECT : of CIA's Intent to Contact the Subject
Dr. Agustin GUITART Compuzano
DPOB : 25 April 1910, Cardenas, Cuba
Based upon date submitted so
identifiable information pertant
to your inquiry leented t
This is the result of a restor
an B file check onty

SECRET
TO BAS/03

SUBJECT
SECRET
ATTENTION
Carl Trettin CI/OA NUMBER 2008
CI/OA NUMBER 2008 BLOG. 0019
GUITART Campusano, Agustin (Dr.) C-201-727418 526 0
CCS FILE NO.
CCS CASE OFFICER
Richard J. Biladdau

Central Cover Staff concurs in your proposal to use the above individual
for the purpose indicated. In keeping with the requiresent placed upon Central
Cover Staff to maintain an accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity,
you are specifically requested to advise Central Cover Staff Non-Official Cover
promptly by memorandum when subject has been activated.

☐ If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject
is in CCS/NC files. After operational approval is received, and prior to making
arrangements for initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to
confer with CCS/NC concerning other Agency interests possibly affected and the
advisability of additional coordination.

DATE SIGNATURE OF CHIEF, CCS/NC
COPY TO 26 JUN 1963
CI/OA
FORM CCS CONCURRENCE
12-02 1678 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
Thosas K Strange
SECRET

SECRET
Date
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
20 June 1963 CRA
TO: SAS/OS C. Trettin
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
CNO. 201-727415
SUBJECT
GUITART Carrizano, Acustin

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRO I REVIEW OF STAFF'D DOSSIER
PRO1.1 REVIED OF STAFFID COLLATERAL INFORMATION
FIELD TRACES RIVICE OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CI/OA
RETRACE REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES REVITO OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION REVITE OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
GREEN LIST OTHERS (S0o Remarka)
FIRST SECOND THIND AND FINAL
NOTICE:

REMARKSI
Please coordinate with Fol.

/8/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.

SECRET

SECRET
NEQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK
Deputy Director of Security DAPE 19 June 1963 Jaw
FROM : Chief, CI/Operational Approval PROJECT
and Support Division JMATE
201-727418
SUBJECT: 10.
:
1. TYPE OF REQUEST 2. FBI CHECK REQUESTED BY (Date)
Issue
SPEC. Ing.

26 June 1963 4. ARES OF SUBJECT'S ASSIGNMENT
SAS/OS New Orleans, La.
6. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
cut-out in Fl operation.
C.1.4. INTEREST WAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION
SUBJECT AWARE OF .. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN
X SUBJECT AWARE OF 2.1.4. INTEREST
E. LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE VESTIGATION OF SUBJECT
PED COVER PRETEXT TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT
a. acasom FOR NO INESTIGATION Outside of cin (Explain fully)
7. RI TRACES
NDI
8. DivisiON TRACES
NDI
9. FIELD TRACES
Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans
10. GREEN LIST INITIATED
X VES NO
PARTIAL DIO. OTHER:
. ATTACHMENTS.
12. REMARES
A. P. O. A.
CODA

Unhas the use/ Thomas. Carroll, Jr.
INITIALS

SECRET
INSTRUCTION SHEET 19 JUN 1963 727418

EXPEDITE SET UP FOR P.O.A.
26 Jure 63
SP INGY

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PEQUEST "GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIED

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REVIEW STAFF/O COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REQUEST RESULTS TECH. SECURITY DIVISION
INTERROGATION FROM OFFICE

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION REVIEW OP SECURITY OFFICE REPORT, AT CI/OA-

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATEDI REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA.
(No notice to division)
CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division) REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
(Soo "Remarks for reason,

REQUEST RI TRACES FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES TICKLE

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES NOTICE FIRST SECOND THIRO AND
FINAL
PRO I PRO 11 OTHER
"Great New Orleans, La.
use
Cut out in FI operation
To SAS:
Please coordinate with FBI

SECRET

SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
XX CI/Operational Approval and Support Division
Security Support Division/office of Security
FROM: Wendell Ullery 18 Jun 63
SAS/IOS
GG14
JMATE
SUBJECT: (True name) Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano
CRYPTONYM. PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES CI/CA FILE NO. 201 FILE NO.
727418 SO FILE NO.
1. TYPE ACTION FENESTED
XXPROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL SOVERY MAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY 'So field investigation).
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
New Orleans, La.

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE his
FI Asset - for use as cut-out to/uncle, Rene GUITART Rodriguez,
(201-727417) who is residing in Cuba.
NOTE: 00/C has contacted Subject, but has no current interest.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
YES NO
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOEN DURING INVESTIGATION? X

3. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? X

C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM? X

D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? X

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

8. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
POS 11 WILL BE FORBARDED
X PRO 1. OF ECHIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
XGALEN LIST ATTACHED, NOI 138893
PRO 11. DR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED

5. RI TRACES 7. DIVISION TRASES
DEROGATORY DEROGATORY
BILL FORWARD BILL FORCARD

NO RECORD X BILL FORWARD NO RECORD 4. DEOCOBATORY INFO.
List Source CECREO

List Source CECREO
X
907 12TIATED (Suplanation) Subject residing in Seyleans.
sengruesorgerl Trettin

SECRET

SECRET
prq part I

NAME Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano

DPOB 25 April 1910, Cardenas, Cuba

RESIDENCE 4009 Elba St., New Orleans 25, La.

OCCUPATION Doctor of Science (Mathematics & Physics)
Presently teaching at Xavier University in
New Orleans.

EMPLOYMENT HIST. Formerly a Prof. at the Univ. of Havana
Served as Minister of Education during the early
part of Carlos PRIO's tenure as head of the Cuban
Gov't.

COURT RECORD Was imprisoned on the Isle of Pines during
MACHADO's term. (date unknown)

SPOUSE Helena TORO
CHILDREN Agustin, Jorge, Vilma Helena, William

CUBAN ADDRESS Havana, Calle 64 No. 1502

NOTE Subject arrived in the U.S.A. in Feb. 1962 thru
Ope Locka, Fla. where he was debriefed by 00/C.

/C has no current interest in Subject.

SECRET
