14-00000
**SECRET**
**MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD**

**SUBJECT:** Handling of LIRING-3 as Hostile Agent
In view of Station Mexico City's statement in paragraph 6 of MEXI 8944 (IN 23093), which presumably comes from
LIRING-3's handler Wallace B. ROWTON, to the effect that LIRING-3 "still has strong anti-U.S. feelings", the time has come to review the LIRING-3/Ops . In the same cable, the Station set forth several control elements including true name receipts and taps made in ROWTON's safehouse of LIRING-3's amourous sessions with a young art student. What appears to be lacking (and not considering the case as the handling of a double agent) is probably more possibly hostile, is homework--that is to say, that there are certain actions that should be taken in the case as follows:
a. Placing of a phone tap on L-3's telephone, if it can be determined that he has a telephone.
b. Intercept of all mail going to LIRING-3's home address.
c. Physical and photo surveillance of L-3 to determine any patterns of actions or contacts with suspicious persons. If topos are that L-3's contacts and actions agree with what L-3 tells ROWTON and to allow ROWTON to be prepared to cover himself in his relations with L-3.

d. To discretely investigate I-3's sources of income,
1.e., to see if his income from teaching art classes (and more cubanis recently from his wife's salary from FIRING) are sufficient to account for his scale of living, whatever it is.

SECRET
---
14-00000
PAGE 2 GUATEMALA CITY 6841 SECRET  **SECRET**

INVOLVED IN COMMUNIST AND COMMUNIST FRONT ACTIVITIES
SINCE 1940'S.  MOST RECENT REPORT WAS NOVEMBER 1964.

LIAISON REPORT WHICH LISTED HIM AS MEMBER OF THE PGT.
INTERESTING TONOTE THAT RODRIGUEZ PARTICIPATED IN SOXE *RE DEERIEFING LIRING/3
FRONT ACTIVITIES WITH JUAN ANTONIO FRANCO.
SECRET
SECRET
BT
---
PRIORITY MEXICO CITY
* 
141930Z CITE MEXICO CITY 9613
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE
KAPOK PBRUMEN LIRING
REF: DIRECTOR 87441
25
 *C *
1. LIRING-3 INFORMED ROWTON 25 MAY HE OBTAINED ONE- DAY

VISA SERVICE 24 MAY.  MEETING HELD 1328 HOURS 25 MAY PRIOR

ARRIVAL REF.  LIRING-3 SHOWED APPARENT DISAPPOINTMENT IN ROWTON
NOT BEING ABLE CONFIRM TRIP.  ROWTON NEXT MEETING WITH LIRING+3
26 MAY LUNCH AT WHICH WILL GIVE SUBJ GO SIGN.

2. QUICK SERVCE ON VISA APPEARS CONFIRM LIRING-3 BOAST

HE CONFIDANT OF RODRIGUEZ.  ROWTON HAS IMPRESSED ON LIRING-3
THAT HE ROWTON'S AGENT AND MIDDLE MAN IN THIS TRANSACTION AND
MUST NOT REVEAL ROWTON.  IF ROWTON REVEALED THEN CUBANS WOULD
WANT DEAL DIRECTLY WITH ROWTON CUTTING OUT LIRING-3. LIRING-3
STATES HE UNDERSTANDS THIS CLEARLY. LIRING-3 ASSURES ROWTON HE
NEED KOT INFORM CUBANS ANYTHING OF ARRANGEMENT SINCE THEY TRUST HIM.
3. CAN HOS SUPPLY ROWTON WITH GREEK PASSPORT NEW YORK DRIVERS

LICENSE AND ANY OTHER LOGICAL POCKET LITTER INDICATING GREEK NATIVE
IN INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS. MATERIAL WOULD NOT BE
USED FOR TRAVEL, BUT AS OP DEVELOPS MY BE HANDY FLASH GREEK
SECRET
 Passpart
as mean
identification.
---
PAGE THREE MEXICO CITY 7234 SECRET

MILITARY SERVICE OR MILITIA.

SECRET
6. STA TRACES SHOW JURADO AS MEMBER PARTIDO POPULAR SOCIALISTA,
MEXICO, IN JULY 61, AND MEMBER PREPARATORY COMMITTEE FOR THIRD LATIN
AMERICAN CONGRESS, ARTISTS AND WRITERS, HAVANA, JAN 62. IFE
MIRIAM CHICHAY DE JURADO EMPLOYED AT CUBAN EMBASSY ABOUT SIX
MONTHS.  Contrelled by Sovett

7. REQUEST POA JURADO AND CHICHAY FOR CONTACT AND ASSESSMENT.
REQUEST COUPLE BE ASSIGNED PSEUDOS IN LIRING SERIES.

8. POUCHING ROWTON CONTACT REPORTS THIS SUBSECT.

SECRET

CFN 7234 WALLACE B. ROWTON CARLOS JURADO MIRIAM HICHAY CUBAN

RIVERA CUBA EUROPE NEW YORK CHINESE PEACH BLOSSOM CHINESE NOT ASK

LITA INT-2 NO IT CURBELO LIENVOY NOT KNOWN NOT WITH LIR ING-1
-2 L-2 STA PARTIDO POPULAR SOCIALISTA MEXICO 61 HAVANA JAN 62

POA LIRING
BT

NNNN
SECRET
---
* L-3/Rowton meeting re L-3 trip to Cuba.
* Roton contact and assessment of L-3 and L-4.
Requested POA on both.
---
* MIK
(6924).
LITEMPO PASSPORT CAMERA
FILE H179-180
4. ATE
-
SECRET
CUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
1-21 NOH.
JECT OF COCUMENT.
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
B1 FILE MO. 5. AS ALBIST
RI FILE NO.
SION OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
7.
8. DATE OF 9. EVALUATION
SOURCE CHYPTIONYM
DATE PROCESSED
LITEMPO
DISSEMINATED IN
PERTINENT INFORMATION
Carlos JURADO- Delmar - Mexican arrived

from luka via lubana flight 464
 on 21 November 1966.
ientioned in
سيد name was the name
 JURADO-malacara
ampat fellowing sutista

Carlos Alberts.
(Any relation?)
LIRING-3
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
201-7988301
FORM
SECRET
---
14-00000

LIRING-3 RETURNED MEXICO CITY AFTERNOON 21 NOV AND HAD SHORT
MEETING WITH WALLACE B. ROWTON THAT NIGHT HIGHLIGHTS OF LONG DE-
BRIEFING MORNING 22 NOV AND PROPOSED FUTURE DIRECTION L-3 OPERATION
BEING CABLED SEPARATELY ALSO POUCHING TAPE OF MEETING.
SECRET

SECRET
LIRING 3
201-798301
1
 *Lirings/3.
-
H/l.Recorde Office - this.
should have hear 201-798301.
201-798301

24 Nov. 1966
---
PAGE 2 MEXI 7234 SECRET
SECRET
SAID HE KNEW EVERYONE AT CLEAN EMBASSY MEXI AND COULD GO TO CUBA FOR
ROWTON.

4. ROWTON SLOWED MATTERS DOWN BY SAYING HE HAD GO EUROPE
FOR ABOUT THREE WEEKS BUT THAT THEY WOULD TALK MORE ABOUT IT UPON
HIS RETURN. IN TURNING COVERSATION TO WIFE, ROWTON LEARNED SHE HAS
FATHER IN NEW YORK WHO LEFT CUBA TO GET AWAY FROM REVOLUTION. FATHER
AND DAUGHTER ON GOOD TERMS AND HE WRITES HER EVERY WEEK. HIS NAME
CHINESE FOR PEACH BLOSSOM AND CHICHAY IS CUBAN ATTEMPT AT TRANSLIT-
ERATION. JURADO SPOKE CHINESE NAME BUT ROWTON UNABLE REMEMBER
PHOIETIC PRONUNCIATION AND COLD NOT ASK FOR SPELLING. CHICHAY
MOT HER STILL IN CUBA WITH BROTHERS AND SISTERS.

5. LITAINT-2 HAS BEEN CULTIVATING CHICHAY SEVERAL MONTHS. SAW
LETTER HER DESK ONE DAY IN CONSULATE AND ASKED IF BORE NEW CUBAN
STAMPS. CHICHAY SAID NO IT FROM HER FATHER IN NEW YORK. SHE UN-
SALARIED AT CONSULATE AND CURBELO, WHO REPORTED BE FRIEND OF JURADO
ACCORDING LIENVOY, HAS DELAYED SENDING HER PHS TO CUBA FOR EMPLOYMENT
ON SALARY BASIS. REASON FOR DELAY NOT KNOWN. SHE FREINDLY WITH
CURBELO BUT NOT WITH LIRING-1. WHEN THEIR DAUGHTER SICK LITAINT-2
GAVE CHICHAY MONEY TO TAKE CHILD TO DOCTOR. L-2 SAYS JURADO HAS MANY
COMMIE FRIENDS MEXI. SPENT TIME IN CUBA AND MAY HAVE SERVED CUBAN
SECRET
---
CLASSIFIED TO FILE ND.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET
REPROCLIC TION PROHEBITED
3.3
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
1
4
"
2
5
ACTION
33
INFO
MEXICO CITY
76
8
ADVANCE CCPY
RID COPY
......
GOLO FOR 7721
-
FILE, UR, C/WH6, C/CI, C/F12,
SECRET 553942Z
DIREO WAVE CITE ΜΕΧΙ 7234
ΚΑΡΟΚ ΤΥΡΙIC

1010462
WALLACE B. ROWTON HAS MADE CONTACT WITH CARLOS JURADO,
ARTIST HUSBAND OF MIRIAM CHICHAY, CLERK IN CUBAN CONSULATE. ROWTON
HAS BECOME QUITE FRIENDLY WITH JURADO, HAS TAKEN HIM AND CHICHAY TO
DINNER AND IN TURN JURADO ESCORTED ROWTON ON TOUR OF RIVERA MURALS
IN MEXI CITY BUILDINGS.
2. ROWTON USING ALIAS HAS EXPLAINED SELF AS IN ECONOMIC RESEARCH
BUSINESS. WHERE FIRST MEET ING DEVELOPED FROM ROWTON VISIT TO SALON
WHERE JURADO SHOWING HIS PAINTINGS RELATIONSHIP HAS NOW SWUNG AROUND
TO PLACE WHERE ROWTON INTERESTED GENERAL WELFARE OF JURADO AND WANTING
DO SOMETHING FOR HIM IF JURADO CAN SUPPLY SONE SERVICE FOR WHICH
ROWTON COULD LOGICALLY AFFORD PAY HIM. JURADO IS SNAPPING AT THIS
BAIT AND APPEARS GENUINELY LIKE ROWTON ASIDE FROM FACT ROWTON APPEARS
BE NON-AMERICAN BUSINESSMAN WITΗ ΜΟΝΕΥ.
3. IN LAST MEETING, ROWTON QUERIED JURADO ON HIS CONTACTS IN
MEXICAN COMMERCE AND JURADO SAID HE HAD NONE. ROWTON ASKED WHAT SORT
CONTACTS HE HAD CUBA SINCE THAT SUBJECT OF INTEREST OT ALL AND JURADO
FELL OVER. SELF COUNTING WHAT HE COULD DO FOR ROWTON ON CUEAN SUBJECT. :
SECRET
---
TECHNICAL
INTERROGATION
REPORT
CCS/NC
NOTIFIED
CCS/NC
COMPLETED
FORM 1262
SECRET
GROUP 1
Bacluded trem autorale
domgrading and declawaten
---
14-00000
PAGE 3 MEXI 7234 SECRET
MILITARY SERVICE OR MILITIA.

SECRET
6. STA TRACES SHOW JURADO AS MEMBER PARTIDO POPULAR SOCIALISTA,
MEXICO, IN JULY 61, AND MEMBER PREPARATORY COMMITTEE FOR THIRD LATIN
AMERICAN CONGRESS, ARTISTS AND WRITERS, HAVANA, JAN 62. IFE
MIRIAM CHICHAY DE JURADO EMPLOYED AT CUBAN EMBASSY ABOUT SIX  Controlled by Sovieto
MONTHS.

7. REQUEST POA JURADO AND CHICHAY FOR CONTACT AND ASSESSMENT.

REQUEST COUPLE BE ASSIGNED PSEUDOS IN LIRING SERIES.

8. POUCHING ROWTON CONTACT REPORTS THIS SUBSECT.

SECRET
CFN 7234 WALLACE B. ROWTON CARLOS JURADO MIRIAM HICHAY CUBAN

RIVERA CUBA EUROPE NEW YORK CHINESE PEACH BLOSSOM CHINESE NOT ASK

LITA INT-2 NO IT CURBELO LIENVOY NOT KNOWN NOT WITH LIR ING-1
-2 L-2 STA PARTIDO POPULAR SOCIALISTA MEXICO 61 HAVANA JAN 62

POA LIRING
BT

NNNN
SECRET
---
JSTEWART
WH/1
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
66013654
SECRET
INDEX
4.
6
DATE: 25 May 1966
DISSEM BY
23/3
NO RID
5
8
INFO: VR
(CLASSIFICATION)
FILE CITE DIRECTOR

SECRET 25 2125 Z
PRIORITY MEXICO CITY
DYVOUR PERUMEN LIRING
REF: A. MEXICO CITY 7422/IN 23654)
B. MEXICO CITY 7234 (IN 10462)**

CONCUR REF TRIP. EVEN IF TRIP NON-PRODUCTIVE, OP STILL MIGHT
DEVELOP INTO LIRING PENETRATION VIA LIRING-4. IN THIS REGARD, STATUS
OF LIRING-4 FATHER, WHO PRESUMABLY CHINESE, PER PARA 4 REF B, IN
PBRIME OF INTEREST IN VIEW STRINGENT ENTRY REQUIREMENTS AND BELIEVE
ROWTON MIGHT PROFITABLY ATTEMPT ELICIT INFO THIS ASPECT CASE DURING
L-3 DEVELOPMENT.

END OF MESSAGE
WH Comment: * L-3/Rowton meeting re L-3 trip to Cuba.
* Roton contact and assessment of L-3 and L-4.
Requested POA on both.
/
Wa/C/FI/TC 7-4
VILLIAX V. BROE
Chief, WH Division
3-5
J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
---
FILE RID 201-198301
CLASSIFY TO FILE 3.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 33
SECRET
L/ACTIEL JICU
30,
REPRODUCTION 730431TED
PERSON/UNIT MOTIFIED
2
5
3
4
7
:
"ACTION" "PER"
AWH 8
*RID COPY
ISSUES
SLOTTED
TUSED
TIFILE YR. /7, C, A/CIPS101F)2 -FILINTA. "0.
SECRET A1985Z CITE MEXICO CITY 9210
AD/OP, DO/1130
DIREOTOR INFO JMWAVE 142071138
LIRING
1. FOLD ARE HIPOINTS LISTE IN3 DEBRIEFING BY ROWTON ON

2 JAN ON HIS VISIT TO GUATEMALA AND HIS DISCUSSIONS IN VILLAGE

NEAR ZACAPA WITH ALLEDGED REPS OF GUAT GUERRILLA GROUP

2. LIRING MET AT HUEHUETENANGO BUE STATION BY TWO KEN

WHO IDENTIFIED SELVES AS "CTAVIO" AND "FALCON AND LOCAL

PURLAS ARMADAS REVOLUCIONARTAB (FAT) REPB SINCE LIRING-J

ONLY ABLE OBTAIN 48 HR GUATEMALA VISA FAT PEPS ASKED HIM

RECROSS INTO MEXICO AND MEET THEM AGAIN NIGHT 20 DECEMBER AT

POINT ON MEXICAN SIDE OF BORDER ON PANAM HIGHWAY HEAR

LA MESILLA, GUATEMALA LIRING DID A9 TOLD, WAS LED ACROSS

BONDER BLACK AND DRIVEN TO GUATEMALA CITY DY SUCCESSION OF

VEHICLES. DURING ALL LEGS OF TRIP SECOND VEHICLE WAS USED

VELL AMEAD OF ORE DRIVING LIRING-3 TO GUARD AGAINST ROADBLOCKS
.
3. IN GUATEMALA CITY LIRING-TAKEN TO HOUSE ON 29TH

AVENUE OCCUPIED BY WOMAN INTRODUCED AS VICKY (WILL OSTAIT

EXACT ADDRESS). TOLD STAY THERE UNTIL CONTACTED WHICH
==End of OCR for page 356==