14-00000

SPATCH

SECRET/RYBAT

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

FROM Chief of Station, London for LCPIPIT

TO Chief of Station, London

SUBJECT ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES: RYBAT/DTDORIC/PLQRPHONE/MHPROBE/STFLIXPLAN Training

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 294821
   
1. Being forwarded USC are copies of the QRPHONE/1 training report, the JEMINIMUM evaluation, contact reports of meetings with QRPHONE/1, a WOGEAR review of QRPHONE/1's book and some notes made by the STFLIMFLAM Headquarters officer, Harvey B. DAITCHMAN (IDEN), after his meetings with QRPHONE/1. These are for the information of both LCPIPIT and London Station and, taken together, should give you both the flavor of the variety of measures taken to assess the operational potential of QRPHONE/1.

2. During PAUPEROS' TDY at Headquarters we discussed the necessity of having QRPHONE/1 undergo an intensive seven day STFLIMFLAN training program to be conducted by DAITCHMAN. It is our opinion that in order for this training to be of maximum benefit, QRPHONE/1 and DAITCHMAN ought to be ensconced in a safehouse facility which provides security, comfort and an atmosphere conducive to learning. It is important that the training be conducted in a locale which will allow QRPHONE to give his full attention without being disturbed by his multitude of business and social contacts. Therefore, we recommend that LCPIPIT rent a cottage or beach house away from London for the duration of the training cycle. In discussing this with QRPHONE, he readily agreed and indicated that there would be no difficulty in getting away from his family for as long as we thought necessary.

Attachments:
A. As Stated (u/s/c)
B. Iden Sheet (u/s/c)

CROSS-REFERENCE TO Approval of sal.

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OEPW-1814

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

CLASSIFIED BY: SEL
:
DATE: 4 AUG 1972

Distribution:
1 - E/BC
1 - E/CA
1-AC/CA/B3.
1 - CA/B3
1 - CI/SO

COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME: DDP/CA/B3/Ken Rosen:ckj (31 July 1972)

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE: AC/CA/B3 - 2 AUG 72

E/BC - 4 AUG 72
E/CA - 4 AUG 72

CI/SO - 26 JUL 72

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE: ADC/CA - 2 AUG

PREVIOUS EDITION.

RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: Dino J. Pionzio

DISPATCH

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OKPW-1814

simply would tell them and his business contacts that he was
traveling on the continent. Please advise us of the dates which
are determined to be convenient to PAUPEROS and QRPHONE/1. The
Headquarters officer would prefer either the third or fourth
week of September, and certainly not before.

3. As indicated in the reference ve solicit comments fron
LCPIPIT and London Station on the results of our varied assessments
of QRPHONE/1 and our decision to move ahead in the new operational
directions described in OEPW-1661. We view the coming year as a
trial one for these purposes and the Project Renewal has been
submitted with that understanding clearly described.

4. Since QRPHONE/1 might refer to conversations he had with
Andrew F. TELQUIST (P), PAUPEROS should know that TELQUIST used
the alias "Bob" in all his meetings with QRPHONE/1.

Allan W. TEUTSCHMAN

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
2

17 June 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WOLIME

SUBJECT: Completion of Training Report for QEPHONE/1,
Training Program "SHAW"

REFERENCE: Memo for Director of Training, From Chief,
WOLIME dated 23 May 1972;
Subject: "Covert Training for QRPHONE/1"

1. QRPHONE/1 was trained covertly in New York from 22 June to
14 July 1972. There were sixteen sessions for a total of eighty-seven
training hours.

2. This was a happy reunion of trainee and instructor. Less than
two years ago, PHONE was given three days of reports training (Please
see Completion of Training Report dated 19 October 1970). Just as then,
PHONE was totally engrossed in every training session from the moment
of his arrival to the moment of his departure. Remembering that the
instructor does not eat lunch, PHONE brought a sandwich with him daily
and took this lunch while listening to the instructer. Thus, every
minute of every day was made to count.

3. The only time lost was three hours for JEMINIMUM and on the
several phone calls he had to make daily to check for calls to his cover
office, then follow up with calls to those persons who had called his
office and had left messages to be called back. At the most, these calls
took half an hour. On some days, they took far less.

4. His cover organization work took up a considerable portion,
everyday, of his free time with the result that he could not do any
casing to speak of for subsequent preparation of commo plans for exercises.
For exemple, told early on to prepare two dead drop commo plans, he
was not able to come up with anything till the last week and then
with only one written one and one that he reveiwed orally. As a result
he had to be given time during the training day to write reports of
his countersurveillance exercises and one of his agent developmental
exercises. After one such exercise, asked if he wished to take time
out during the training day to write his report he said: "No, tonight
I will make time to write it." And he did. And it was a good report.

5. On each Sunday, he went out of town to visit his aged Grandmother.
He used the travel time to read tradecraft books (he read seven altogether).

SIG: ATT ito OEPW-1814 CS COPY

-2-

On Tuesday, July 4th, his publisher appointed him baby sitter for the
publisher's teen age son and there went any hope of getting any casing
done that day. At least one time, he mentioned that he did not go
to bed till two that morning and as he had left the afternoon before,
he had stated that he had meetings starting at rour-thirty that afternoon.
With all that, he nevertheless was fully alert and attentive every minute
of every training session.

6. In his developmental recruitment series of exercises, his
instructor played the role of operations officer -- and a real dumb-
dumb he was. In such circumstances, PHONE had to do all the thinking,
all the planning, all the casing for meeting sites, all the analyzing,
all the preparing and pointing for the recruitment. It was pure joy
to watch this man, after each meeting and again before the next one,
go to work on the problem. He knew where he was, knew where he wanted
to go, knew how to get there. When Mr. Rod Sweet, during the critique
at the end of the series of exercises said: "He did a beautiful job,"
PHONE had earned that accolade all by himself. The instructor's only
contribution had been in the teaching of the subject of Agent Acquisition.

7. At this point, the instructor wishes to execute a low bow in
the direction of Mr. Sweet: He played his agent role excellently well
and made the exercise a meaningful one for PHONE. The three trips to
New York by Mr. Sweet must have been very taxing, particularly in view
of his immediately upcoming TDY trip, but they were efforts well spent.

8. No man, of course, is perfect. Each has an Achilles heel, a
weakness, or an all-too-human trait, at the very least. Our PHONE has
his. He has a very quick mind. He knows it. And knowing it, he relies
on it, counts on it. This, in turn, leads to a small failure in self-
discipline. For example, told to write out his plan for the recruitment
pitch, he came in with six words (maybe not that many) scratched on a
3 by 5 leaf torn out of his pocket notebook. He then proceeded, from
these few words, to run off his plan without a single pause for en
uh, hm, er, etc. It was as though he was reading a definition from a
dictionary, so smoothly did his mind and thoughts run. He prepares
everything in his mind, it appears, and does not like to write out
that which he feels he should not have to write out. While it is great
to have so facile a mind, a bit of discipline, to write out in full
so important an act as a recuritment pitch, might one day save grief
when an error would have been spotted had the entire plan been written
out then looked over for possible flews.

9. This small flaw, the instructor feels, accounts in considerable
measure for PHONE's failure to bring in a written dead drop plan till
the last days of the program. PHONE felt he could just as easily report
orally. In fact, the other dead drop (he had been asked to do two)
on which he reported orally, he discussed as though the paper was in
front of him and he was reading from it. Nothing was missing -- area

-3-

description, access, hours of availability, the opposition, pros and
cons as to suitability -- it was all there. He just didn't like to
write out that upon which he could report orally.

10. In writing reports on the two counter-surveillance exercises,
he dashed those off in jig time. No pause for thinking, no pause to
look up at the ceiling or out the window. Just straight writing, includ-
ing paragraphing. Mind and pen were as one. Same thing for his oral
analysis before and after each meeting -- no pause to think, to review,
to reconstruct, to remember just an IBM-type printout.

11. The instructor sets down this reluctance on our hero's part
to write out certain things, not to downgrade him, but to alert desk
and field officers that if they must have a certain report by a certain
time, and they want it in writing, they must be firm. For example,
after the second meeting in the developmental series, the instructor
said: "I must have that report first thing in the morning. Do you
want to take time out from this afternoon's training session to do it?"
And, as already reported above, PHONE preferred to save the training
time and he answered "I will make time to write it". In this case,
time was of the essence because Mr. Sweet had to see the report before
the next meeting. To sum up this item: When PHONE feels that an oral
report is adequate he finds it a little difficult to bring himself to
find time to make a written report. Told definitely that he must write
a report and given a deadline, he meets the deadline and the report is
everything it should be.

12. His reports on his recruitment meetings, Mr. Sweet said, were
excellent. No jumping to conclusions, no padding, no misinterpretations,
no omissions.

13. The surveillance team captain, reading PHONE's report on his
actions during the countersurveillance exercises, marvelled at the
completeness, total accuracy of description of the surveillants PHONE
had made, including their ages (but always made each man an inch or
two shorter than the actual height -- which PHONE admitted he does
constantly), and the total recall of every move, every street crossing,
every compass direction. (In the first countersurveillance exercise,
sprung on PHONE without a moment's prior notice, he made one of his
two surveillants. In the second one, with plenty of time to prepare,
he made all three of them. These were two different teams from the
New York Office of Security). Concluding his admiration of PHONE's
reporting, the surveillance team captain said to the instructor: "You
should be very proud of him".

14. In both exercises, the surveillance teams criticized the
rapidity of PHONE's movements. He walks very rapidly from place to
place, then spends time to browse in a book shop. Then off again at
a high rate of speed to his next stop. They also criticized his looking

-4-

tail conscious. These are a typical New Yorker's habits. The instructor,
also a New Yorker, is guilty of the identical actions. We are highly
kinetic in our movements and as for looking both ways while crossing a
one-way street, we follow the old Marine Corps adage: "There's always
one S.O.B. that doesn't get the word". By sheerest coincidence, when
the instructor was on his way to the safesite to deliver the surveillance
team's report, he violated his own rule of looking both ways in crossing
a one-way street and was bowled over by a hippie on a loaded bike --
going the wrong way. Only the large heavy film case the instructor
was carrying kept him from being knocked flat.

15. Nevertheless, PHONE is now fully cognizant of the appearance
that his actions create and will watch it in the future.

16. One last note on the counter-surveillance exercises: He
chose his positions well and he camouflaged his actions beautifully.
One example: The instructor called the surveillance team for a quick
feedback on the first exercise and caught the men just as they returned
to their office. They got on different phones for a three way conversation.
They reported one incident as follows: "So rapid were PHONE's movements,
that when he met a friend of his, he hardly paused to speak with him,
just waved him off". The second surveillant: "No, it didn't look like
that at all, to me. To me it looked like this Indian-looking person
stopped PHONE and asked him for directions and PHONE gave them and just
went about his business". PHONE's own report, which he wrote up before
he learned about the two different interpretations of the incident:
"--- where I stopped a foreign-looking man, apparently Indian in origin
and asked him for the Museum which I knew perfectly well is on 55th
Street. I turned around as he pointed south to 55th Street and spotted
the same man in the grey suit, now holding his hat in his hand".

17. In the second exercise, there were two items of note: One,
the team was surprised to note in PHONE's report that PHONE even had
the name of the book that the surveillant picked up when he followed
PHONE into a book store. Second, when the exercise was over, the team
compared notes and decided that PHONE may have made two of them but
could not possibly have made the third man. The team captain, on reading
PHONE's report, was stunned to see that PHONE had indeed made the third
man also, but good.

18. PHONE had an elicitation exercise (in addition to the develop-
mental acquisition series) with Mr. Harry Webster, an instructor in the
New York office. After relating the fine job that PHONE had done, Mr.
Webster's report concluded: "A first rate performance by PHONE, who's
obviously been around -- both coverwise and for real".

19. His choice of meeting places with his agent could not be
faulted. For one, he chose an East Side restaurant (where diplomants,
as Mr. Sweet held himself out to be, would properly be seen dining).

SECRET

-5-

Yet it was far enough away from the United Nations building to lessen
the chances that PHONE himself and his putative diplomat terget would
be spotted by friends or acquaintances. His choice for the next meeting
was at an impressively named new restaurant near the Lincoln Center
for the Performing Arts on the West Side of town. This restaurant was
located in the safesite complex. He was thus able very smoothly to
invite his agent to the safesite from the restaurant for the recruiting
pitch.

20. He did very well in executing two recognition meetings and
two brush passes. He had no time to write his own commo exercises
(as stated, he was able to write up only one dead drop commo plan)
so he was given commmo plans written up by another trainee. To give him
variety, he was alternately the higher and the lower echelon, alternately
accepted and made the hand-off.

21. In operational and intel reports, he did very well. He very
successfully separated the operational from the intel info and the
source comments from the positive intelligence.

22. Instructor's Observation: PHONE is a proud man, both as an
individual and as an operator. While he was very discreet about it,
very circumspect, he did, nevertheless, let the instructor know that
he has, on occasion been handled with something less than pure genius.
This, like the previous item, is noted not to down-grade PHONE, but to
alert both desk and field officers that this man, being very sure,
positive, definite and strong, hopes to be handled in a manner that
would have those same words apply.

23. In sum: A very good man.

24. In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the training,
we would appreciate a detailed evaluation report in July 1973 from the
field station. This report should indicate the extent to which the
training has made the trainee a more useful and effective asset and
should evaluate the performance in each area of tradecraft in which
training was conducted; negative as well as positive comments are
solicited. The field station's report should also include the trainee's
own comments. Please ask the field station to slug the report WOMOLD/
QRPHONE/1/SHAW. Upon receipt of the report at Headquarters, please
forward a copy to the undersigned.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING:

