2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF: 14-3 INFO FILE: DDO, DDO/DO, OL-C,
'EYES ONLY' CBS, clink 3 CHA-3
TO: (LONDON) INFO (JAKARTA) (THE HAGUE), (PARIS) Y
RYBAT PLMHBLANKET Y
REF: (LONDON) 72167 |IN 90646614

1. FOLLOWING ARE HQS TRACES ON WILLEM LEONARD OLTMANS
{201-155221}. {SUBJECT). DPOB: 10 JUNE 25, HUIZEN, NETHERLANDS.
OLTMANS IS 6'1" TALL.Y

FYI:
2. OLTMANS STUDIED AT YALE IN 1950 AND WAS EXPELLED FOR MIS-BEHAVIOR. FOR A SHORT TIME HE WORKED FOR U.P. AND "DE TELEGRAAF" A
DUTCH NEWSPAPER. HOWEVER, HE WAS FIRED FROM BOTH. IN 193856 OR 57
HE MARRIED AN AMERICAN GROUND STEWARDESS. IN 1960 HE DIVORCED HER
AND IN NOV WAS LIVING WITH A FILIPINO MALE. OLTMANS WAS ADMITTED
TO THE U.S. IN NEW YORK CITY AS A PERMANENT RESIDENT ON 10 JUNE 56.4
NUMEROUS FIELD REPORTS INDICATE THAT

3. IN 1956 SUBJECT ARRANGED AN INTRODUCTION FOR HIMSELF TO
PRESIDENT SUKARNO. HE THEN TRAVELED WITH SUKARNO DURING THE PRESI-
DENT'S TRIP THRU EUROPE IN 1956 AS THE PRESIDENT'S GUEST. SUBJ'S
TRIP FROM INDONESIA TO THE US IN FEB 57 WAS PAID BY THE INDONESIAN
GOVT. INDICATIONS ARE THAT SUBJ WAS BEING USED AS A TOOL BY THE
INDONESIAN GOVT TO CARRY ON PROPAGANDA IN THE US AND AT THE UN.
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT: PAL DISON
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION COORDINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
AUTHENTICATINO CCR1073
E 2
IMPOST

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF: INFO: FILE DIRECTOR

SUBJ'S-WIFE SAID THAT DURING THEIR MARRIAGE OLTMANS WROTE SUKARNO
AT LEAST ONCE A WEEK 34

F11:
4. IN MAR 1960 SUBJ DESCRIBED HIMSELF AS ANTI-COMMUNIST. HE
STATED HIS VIEWS ARE AT BEST THOSE OF A GREAT ADMIRER OF COMMUNISM
AND WHAT THE COMMUNIST SYSTEM REPRESENTS. HE WAS DESCRIBED AS
HAVING EXCELLENT CONTACTS WITH ALL THE COMMUNIST-DOMINATED COUNTRIES,
END FYL
INCLUDING CUBA Y

5. ON 18 DEC 62 SUBJECT ANNOUNCED HE INTENDED TO TAKE LEGAL
ACTION AGAINST DUTCH FOREIGN MINISTER J. Μ. Α. Η. LUNS. SUBJ
ALLEGED THAT HE HAD BEEN REFUSED "ON INSTRUCTIONS FROM LUNS" A
DECLARATION BY THE DUTCH EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON, D.C. THAT HE WAS A
BONA FIDE JOURNALIST WORKING FOR BONA FIDE NEWSPAPERS. AN EARLY
REPORT
1972 STATED OLTMANS WAS ATTEMPTING TO HAVE THE GOVT PRO-
24
SECUTE LUNS FOR "LYING AND MISLEADING THE GOVERNMENT" ON INDONESIA
DURING HIS TENURE AS FOREIGN MINISTER. THE 19 AND 20 JAN 72 ISSUES
OF DUTCH PAPER "DE TELEGRAAF" CARRY ARTICLES EXPOSING ACTIVITIES
SUBJ WHO ENGAGED IN DENIGRATION CAMPAIGN AGAINST LUNS. STORIES
ACCUSE SOVIETS OF COLLUSION WITH SUBJ AND OF INTERFERENCE IN DUTCH
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS HIBITED E 2

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF: INFO: FILE DIRECTOR

INTERNAL AFFAIRS.

6. IN 1963 SUBJECT WAS A JOURNALIST AT THE UN CONNECTED WITH AN
OBSCURE DUTCH NEWSPAPER. THE OTHER JOURNALISTS CLAIMED TO NEVER
HAVE SEEN ANYTHING OF SUBJ'S IN PRINT. WHILE AT THE UN OLTMANS
APPLIED FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE UN CORRESPONDENCE ASSOCIATION. HOW-
EVER, HE COULD NOT PRODUCE A SINGLE CLIPPING TO DEMONSTRATE HIS
JOURNALISTIC ACTIVITIES. DURING THIS TIME, SUBJ GAVE LECTURES,
EARNING ABOUT $6000 PER SEASON, ON INTERNATIONAL POLITICS, TOUCHING
ON ASIA IN GENERAL AND INDONESIA SPECIFICALLY. HE CLAIMS TO HAVE
GROWN UP IN INDONESIA AND THEREFORE KNOWS THE CONDITIONS THERE.Y
A LIASON PEPORT

7. IN NOV 13 SUBJECT DESCRIBED, AS "OUTSPOKEN ANTI-AMERICAN.
24
OUTSPOKEN PRO-INDONESIAN, AND PERSONDA NON-GRATA WITH THE DUTCH."Y

8. IN APRIL 1967 SUBJ CLAIMED TO HAVE SOLD AN ARTICLE TO
"RAMPARTS" MAGAZINE ABOUT THE CIA IN INDONESIA. HOWEVER, THE ARTICLE
WAS NEVER PRINTED.Y

9. IN FEB 68, SUBJECT INTERVIEWED JIM GARRISON ON DUTCH TV ABOUT
THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
ARIASONTREPORT
SUBJECT
10. IN FEB 72 DESCRIBED AS AN EMOTIONALLY DISTURBED
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

HELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHICHTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF: INFO: FILE DIRECTOR

PUBLICITY SEEKER WHO DOESN'T SEEM TO CARE WHAT TYPE PUBLICITY HE
RECEIVES.Y

11. IN 72 OLTMANS WAS PLANNING TO MAKE A FILM IN THE USSR ON
ECOLOGY. HE VISITED THE USSR 23-26 JAN 72 TO MAKE FINAL ARRANGEMENTS
DUTCH STEVICE

FOR THE FILM. AT THIS TIME, CLAIMED SUBJ HAD A
24
5-YR RETAINER FROM SOVIETS AS OVERT PR MAN. ENO INDICATION IN FILE
IF FILM EVER MADE.34

12. SUBJ'S TRAVEL: 1956 MET AND ACCOMPANIED PRESIDENT SUKARNO
ON EUROPEAN TRIP. DEC 56 VISTED INDONESIA. FEB 57 USA. 1960
CONGO. 1961 E. GERMANY, CZECHSLOVAKIA, POLAND, HUNGARY. 1962
CUBA. JAN 72 USSR. FEB-MAR 72 USA. MAR 72 USSR.4
WITH EXCEPTION PARAS 2 ANDY

13. NO LATER INFORMATION IN THE FILE. ABOVE MAY BE GISTED FOR
(JAGUAR). Y

14. FILE: 73-6/46/3. EZ IMPDET.
DATE: 6 MAY 76
ORIG: PATSY WOL
UNIT: CI/OG
EXT: 1117

RELEASING OFFICE
CLASSIFICATION COORDINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS
