2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Chief of Station, Bangkok
Chief of Station, Rangoon
Chief, Far East Division
Chief of Station, Melbourne

Patrick PO HLA

References:
A. DIRECTOR 34594
B. BANGKOK 3988
C. MELBOURNE 6905
D. BANGKOK 3809

Action Required:  Please advise if still desired that
Melbourne Station contact subject

1.  In response to a brief letter from the undersigned,
which queried his general plans, subject has replied per
attachment. Please note that he can make himself available
after 4 November 1968 for discussions with Melbourne. The
Station defers to Bangkok and Director whether it is still
desired that we summon subject to Melbourne for talks along
the lines indicated in reference D.

2.  For Rangoon:  Note penultimate paragraph of subject's
letter in which he indicates that his daughter and family are
planning to leave Rangoon permanently.  The manner in which
this is phrased leaves it unclear whether they are attempting
this overtly or working behind the scenes.  The Station notes
from BANGKOK 9542 of 1 May 1968 that the daughter is married
to a Burma Air Force pilot.  Since we do not have any names,
it may be unlikely that Rangoon would have any information
on the case.

Attachment:  herewith
Letter

Distribution:
2-COS, Bangkok w/att 1 cy
1-COS, Rangoon w/att 1 cy
2 - C/FE w/att 2 cys

Leslie H. GEVOLB

FAMA 5803 201-073217

latt.
SECRET
CS COPY

10 October 1968
(8 October 1968)
Not known
10 October 1968

Patrick Pohla
c.A.E
KIETA
BOUGAINVILLE,
NEW GUINEA.
24th October 1968

Dear Mr.

I thank you for your letter of 23rd
September, rerouted here.

I am sorry I couldn't come and see
on my way here whilst passing through Melbourne
a week ago.

I think I have an idea of the subject
you want to discuss with me. I met a friend in Thailand
en route to Perth and he wanted me to join his business.
Anticipating to hear further from this source, I remained
without taking up any job for exactly five months.

I have rejoined Rio Tinto as Assistant
Personnel Officer on the Copper Project here. This
job can be terminated on one months notice on either
side although it's on a permanent basis.

I am an ardent anti-communist and will
dedicate my whole life to combating this enemy.

is aiming to destroy our freedom. Knowing
one must make plans for ones future, I am
reluctant to take up anything on a short-term
basis. I would not like to be in another position
like that of the old contract in Viet Nam, when
renewal was not considered when it expired after
two years, despite an assurance when the offer
was made, that there would be no difficulty about
the extension after the entire two years.

I worked very hard in vietnam and my injuries
and the Thatinic Police of Viet Nam appreciated
my work. The Vietnamese Government awarded me
with the rare award of the National Police Medal
of Honour. I felt gratified though that my work
was found meaningful although I could not understand it.

I am still very keen and will
gladly come to discuss with you after
4th November when the Personnel Officer returns
to duty, if you want me to. There is a very
important point I wish to discuss concerning a
personal matter which can delay my future work
by a few months if everything works out
satisfactorily after discussion. It concerns my
daughter, son-in-law and grandson who are
intending to leave Rayoon for good for Australia.

I look forward to hearing from you in
due course. Once again I thank you for
your letter.

With best wishes.

Yours sincerely,

Patrick
(POHLA)

201-072217
