104-10178-10136 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : PARIS
ACTION : 3AS (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1735 19 JUN DO)
INFO : DOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, WE 4, WH 7, S/C 2, 11

SECRET
7727Z IN63271

KPRITY DIR INFO PRITY MADR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9868
TYPIC

REF A PARI 9888 (IN 601964)* 19 JUN 1963
B PARI 9849 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS) (IN 63094)

1. RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 13 JUNE. IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 8824 RAY HAS
ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT UNRUMBLE 6, UNPAPIST, AND AT LEAST ONE CONTACT WITH AMSPORT 1. RAY DESIGNATED UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT
MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND
HAS APPROACHED EMB IN PAST SEPARATELY FROM UNRUMBLE 2 WITH SOME • INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIM DIRECTLY IN PAST
BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP, WITH UNRUMBLE 2. UNRUMBLE 2 VILL NEVERTHELESS BE VISITING UNRUMBLE 6 CURRENT
RELATIONSHIP. RAY WAS DRIVEN AIRPORT BY ALBERTO BAEZ WITH WHOM RAY SPENT MUCH TIME AND WHO SEEMS BE CLOSEST TO RAY AMONG
HIS CONTACTS PARIS.
2. CABRERA DID NOT PHONE OUR COME PARIS OVER WEEKEND.
CONTINUE MONITOR DEVELOPMENTS THROUGH UNRUMBLE 6.

SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDING FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION,
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 63271 PAGE 2

RAY BELIEVES CABRERA VILL WORK ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO
COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS UNCLE WHO IS FUERTO RICO AND
KNOWN TO RAY. HE COULD NOT REMEMBER NAME OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP
BUT PLANS CONTACT HIM ON RETURN AND GROOM HIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED
BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.

4. KUBARK STAFFER (IDEN B) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM
MET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAPPORT. HE ARRANGED RAY'S
PRESS INTERVIEW WITH GUILLON DE MOULINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED
(IN 60159)
IN PARA FIVE PARI 8947) OF LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER 63
JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR
FRANQUI SHOULD HE DEFECT.

5. RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI VILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN
NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORK-
ING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES
(IN 63152)
DIR 48158 AND PARI 9867(NOT SENT SJAN BRUS).

6. POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUEDE TALK WITH FRANQUI IS IN 8 JUNE
UNSOX. AMB GRAMATGES MENTIONS TO SINOBAS THAT MARIO (PRESUMABLY
THIRD SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING
THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUI ASKED
FOR SOME MORE PEOPLE FROM THE EMBASSY TO BE AROUND THE EXHIBITION.
DO LINE UNSTEROA 10 CONMENTS TOMUSNAPU IS THAT
ON "QUSANOS WERE 0 PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBITION AND THE FRENCH
POLICE MENT BY CUBE TO ASK IF THEY SHOULD QUARD THE EXHIBIT
HOWEVER THIS LATTER PROBABLY HOT REFERENCE QUEDEL OTHER THAN
THIS STA HAS HO INDICATION FRANQUI HAS TALKED ABOUT APPROACH
7

RAY FEELS TRIP EUROPE VAS VERY PROFITABLE. DESPITE FACT
HE HAS NO FIRM COMMITMENT FROM FRANQUI, CABRERA OR ARCOS HE

SECRET
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET IN 63271 PAGE 3

SEEMS CONFIDENT THEY WILL JOIN KIM EVENTUALLY. HE FEELS HE HAS
TIGHTENED UP AND INSPIRED HIS ORGANIZATION" PARIS. SAYS HAS
GAINED MPRESSION FROM TALKS WITH CUBANS HERE THAT DISILLUSION-
MENT AMONG CUBAN EMBASSIES AND OFFICIALS INSIDE CUBA HAS GROUN
CONSIDERABLY. RAY CONVINCED IT POSSIBLE TO OVERTHROW CASTRO
CLEANLY AND SIMPLY. WANTS DEVOTE OWN APPARATUS TO IDENTIFYING
DISAFFECTED ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND BUILDING UP SUPPLY APPARATUS IN
AND OUTSIDE CUBA TO SERVE THEM.

8. RAY ASKED FOR FOLLI

A. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN
EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN
PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMU-
LATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.

B. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN
IDENTICAL SV SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN
SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS
SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. WOULD
APPRECIATE HQS PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SV SYSTEM.

C. RAY ALSO ASKED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP
SOME PAPER AS DISCUSSED WITH NAUMAN PER PARI 6947. WOULD APPRE-
CIATE HQS FOLLOWUP ON THIS.
:
FEEL ONE SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT OF RAY'S TRIP WAS RE-ES-
TABLISHMENT OF WORKING RELATION WITH RAY. BELIEVE HE HIT IT OFF
WELL WITH NAUMAN GROVERY AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE OUR
SUPPORT WHICH MAY ALLEVIATE SOMEWHAT SOME PAST PROBLEMS KUBARK
RELATIONSHIP.
16. INDEX.
SECRET
C/S COMMENT: PRAY DEPARTING PARI AF 015 ARRIVING NY 1300 HOURS 18 JUNE

SECRET
