14-00000
104-10192-10266 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

| | CLASSIFIED MESSAGE | | QUIET |
|---|---|---|---|
| DATE: 27 MAY 62 | SECRET | ROUTING |
| TO: DIRECTOR | | 1
 |
| FROM: JMWAVE | | PA/PROP 62 |
| ACTION: TFW 10(MR CHARLES MATT, TFW, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1830 27 MAY) | MAY 27 22162 62 |
| INFO: DCI, DCP, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, S/C 2 | OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE |
| | | |IN 41885

OPI CIP CITE WAVE 4077.

GY FOSE:
1. MIAMI HERALD 27 MAY CARRIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN. ENTITLED "MIRO FADES AS EXILE CHIEF: THREE LATIN LEADERS BEHIND RAY". ARTICLE FLATLY
STATES MIRO AND COUNCIL HAVE BEEN REPLACED BY MANUEL RAY WITH.

CON MOOZ MARIN, PRES ROLILO BETANCOURT AND FORMER PRES
THAT RAY HAS TAKEN OVER POST "WITH THE BLESSING OF THE
UNITED STATES". FURTHER, ARTICLES STATES "FROM VARIETY SOURCES HERALD
LASHED THAT MIRO WASINOTIFIED OF CHANGE ONLY THIS
WEEK AND THAT DAYS REAPPOINTMENT AS "CHIEF IN EXILE" CAME FROM "UNDER-

USA" ACCORDING TO JOASI GODOY, PROVISIONAL MRP HEAD IN
AFTER SUGNISHING RESUME CUZAN ACTIVITIES SINCE ORIGIN OF AMBUD,
CREDITS CUBANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING "NEW MAN IN FIELD IS ADOLF
WHO HAS BEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO
PEES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA".

APPLICATION BEING THAT BERLE IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSORED
CHAN EFFORT.

2. THIS RELEASE CAUSING SC FUROR IN LOCAL CUBAN COLONY TO EXTENT
LEAST ONE OPS AGENT DESTINED FOR ISOLATION TRAINING HAS
ASKED TO BE BELIEVED IF THERE ANY TRUTH THIS STORY. MEANWHILE WAVE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

---
14-00000

| DATE |: | | ROUTING |
|---|---|---|---|
| TO |: |CLASSIFIED MESSAGE| 1|
| FROM |: |SECRET| 2
 |
| ACTION |: | | 3|
| INFO |: | | | 

PAGE 2
WAVE 4077 IN 41885
CHECKS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE CONTACTS HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN
WILLIAM S. WIRALDA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHANAN JOURNALISTIC REPUTATION

INDICATES HE INACCURATE AND SENSATIONAL IST. 
ALTER-1 AND PASS OV
ATTEMPTING DISCREETLY TRACE AUCHANAN SOURCE FOR "U.S. BLESSING."

3. BUCHANAN HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO RE DURING RETURN PLAYA
SIPON PRISONERS MIAMI. HAVE NO REAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE THESE
ATTACKS BUT BELIEVE THEY COULD REFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD
ATTEMPTS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES POSTURE RE CUBA.

4. EXPECT ARTICLE VILL HAVE FURTHER REPERCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS.

WISH ALERT HQS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT
BUCHANAN STORY AS WELL AS REASSURE MIRO. WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS
OFCARD AFTER WE HAVE OPPORTUNITY FURTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.

5. POUCHING CLIPPING 28 MAY

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
Eachted from autorat
daration and detlassification
provisions of Section 3
Executive Order 12356
July 14, 1987.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
