14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: TS Material from Deryabin Safe

INCLUSIVE DATES: 

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
------- | -------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------
 |  |  | 
 |  |  |
 |  |  |
 |  |  |
 |  |  |
 |  |  |
 |  |  |
 |  |  |
 |  |  |
 |  |  |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000

☐ UNCLASSIFIED | ☐ INTERNAL USE ONLY | ☐ CONFIDENTIAL | ☐ SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional) KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM: Rodger S. Gabrielson
OLC/C&R
TO (Officer designation, room number, and building) | OFFICE'S INITIALS | FORWARDED | DATE
:------------------------------------------------- | :--------------- | :---------- | :---
1. Mr. N. Shepanek SA/DO/0 Tube: G-Green |  | | 
2. Mr Jack Gullivan 96 Tube F | | | 
3. Mer | | | 
4. Mr. Hiwinger | | | 
5. Mr. topboldt | | | 
6. Mr. Hubertavery | | | 
7. Rodigan Habrielson | | | 
8.  | | | 
9.  | | | 
10.  | | | 
11.  | | | 
12.  | | | 
13.  | | | 
14.  | | | 
15.  | | | 

EXTENSION NO: 1133
REF TO: Con. No. TS191722 thru C
DATE: 19 June 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Attached is a letter- from the House Select Committee on Assassinations dated.
Please respond as soon as possible.

Shep: Please have CI look at this. It's the T. S. material from Deryabin's safe - requested by Blakey. Thanks, Rodge

(It 7: cistoff may be il in)

FORM: 1-52 610
EDITIONS | ☐ SECRET | ☐ CONFIDENTIAL | ☐ INTERNAL USE ONLY | ☐ UNCLASSIFIED

---

14-00000

TOP SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED when blank - TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document - Automatically downgraded to SECRET when filled in form is detached from controlled document.

CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION | REGISTRY
:--------------------- | :---------
Source: SR/CI/K | CIA Control No: TS 191722
Doc. No: ΧΑΑΖ-17241 | Date Document Received: 15 JUN 1978
Doc. Date: 20 APR 1964 | Logged By: B
Copy No: #Repro 2
Number of Pages: 38
Number of Attachments: 

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on top of and attached in each Top Secret document received by the Central Intelligence Agency or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as it is downgraded, destroyed, or transmitted outside of CIA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control personnel and those individuals whose official duties relate to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form and indicate period of custody in the left-hand columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and indicate the date of handling in the right-hand columns.

REFERRED TO | RECEIVED | RELEASED | SEEN BY
Office | Signature | Date | Time | Date | Time | Signature | Office/Div | Date
:---------- | :-------- | :---- | :----- | :---- | :---- | :-------- | :---------- | :----
DDP(TSCO) | B. Ligg | 15 JUN 1976 |  | 19 JUN 1978 |  |  |  | 
DC/JOLC gloriofore...|  | 15 JUN 1978 | | | | |  | 
Scott Brickiridge |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
AC/CI/K(CY) |  | 19 JUN 1978 |  | 19 Junete | |  |  | 
DDO/FSCO B|  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
Breckinridge or Habrilson |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 

TO DO/TSCO

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this form is detached from Top Secret material it shall be completed in the appropriate spaces below and transmitted to Central Top Secret Control for record.

DOWNGRADED | DESTROYED | DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)
:----------- | :---------- | :------------------------
TO | BY (Signature) | TO 
BY (Signature): | BY (Signature)
OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE

FORM 26 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
6-64 (OP-1)

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION (40)

---

14-00000

TOP SECRET
UNCI ASSIFIED when blank - TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document - Automatically downgraded to SECRET when filled in form is detached from controlled document.

CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION | REGISTRY
:--------------------- | :---------
Source: SR | CIA Control No: TS191722A
Doc. No: XAA7-17241/1 | Date Document Received: 15 JUN 1978
Doc. Date: 11 MAY 1964 | Logged By: B
Copy No: Repro 2
Number of Pages: 28
Number of Attachments: 

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on top of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intelligence Agency or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as it is downgraded, destroyed, or transmitted outside of CIA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control personnel and those individuals whose official duties relate to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form and indicate period of custody in the left-hand columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and indicate the date of handling in the right-hand columns.

REFERRED TO | RECEIVED | RELEASED | SEEN BY
Office | Signature | Date | Time | Date | Time | Signature | Office/Div | Date
:---------- | :-------- | :---- | :----- | :---- | :---- | :-------- | :---------- | :----
DDP(TSCO) | B. Digg | 10 JUN 1975 |  | 19 JUN 1978 | | |  | 
DC-OLC glaris fore...|  |  | | | | | | 
Scott Breckenridge |  |  | | | | | | 
AC/CI/K(CY) |  | 19 JUN 1978 |  | 19 Junete | |  | | 
DDO/DSCO B. Ligg |  |  | | | |  | | 
Breckenridge or Sabrielson |  | 20 Jun 1978 |  | 20 UN 1978 | |  | | 
000/TSCO |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this form is detached from Top Secret material it shall be completed in the appropriate spaces below and transmitted to Central Top Secret Control for record.

DOWNGRADED | DESTROYED | DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)
:----------- | :---------- | :------------------------
TO | BY (Signature) | TO |
BY (Signature): | BY (Signature)
OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE

FORM 26 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
6-64 (OP-1)

TOP SECRET

CL
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION (40)

---

14-00000
:

TOP SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED when blank - TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document - Automatically downgraded to SECRET when filled in form is detached from controlled document.

CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION | REGISTRY
:--------------------- | :---------
Source: SR/CI/K | CIA Control No: TS# 191722B
Doc. No: ΧΑΑΖ-17241/2 | Date Document Received: 15 JUN 1070
Doc. Date: 19 MAY 1964 | Logged By: B
Copy No: #Repro 2
Number of Pages: 22
Number of Attachments: 

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on top of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intelligence Agency or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as it is downgraded, destroyed, or transmitted outside of CIA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control personnel and those individuals whose official duties relate to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form and indicate period of custody in the left-hand columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and indicate the date of handling in the right hand columns.

REFERRED TO | RECEIVED | RELEASED | SEEN BY
Office | Signature | Date | Time | Date | Time | Signature | Office/Div | Date
:---------- | :-------- | :---- | :----- | :---- | :---- | :-------- | :---------- | :----
DDP(TSCO) | B. Ligg | 15 JUN 1975 | | 19 JUN 1978 | | |  | 
DO/TSCO/210 Bicol Brick |  | 1974 | | 19 JUNE 78 | | | | 
ACI/CI (NAY) |  | | | | | | | 
SCI/OCC| | | | | | | | 
Breckinridge er Gabrielson | | 23 Jun | 23-73 | | | | | 
PPO/5000 |  |  |  |  |  |  | | 

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this form is detached from Top Secret material it shall be completed in the appropriate spaces below and transmitted to Central Top Secret Control for record.

DOWNGRADED | DESTROYED | DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)
:----------- | :---------- | :------------------------
TO | BY (Signature) | TO |
BY (Signature): | BY (Signature)
OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE

FORM 26 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
6-64 (OP 1)

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DE CLASSIFICATION
(40)

---

14-00000

TOP SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED when blank - TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document - Automatically downgraded to SECRET when filled in form is detached from controlled document.

CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION | REGISTRY
:--------------------- | :---------
Source: C/SR | CIA Control No: TS 191722C
Doc. No: CSC1-3/781.491 | Date Document Received: 15 JUN 1970
Doc. Date: 19 May 1964_ | Logged By: B
Copy No: #Repro 2
Number of Pages: 2
Number of Attachments: 

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on tee of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intelligence Agency or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as it is downgraded, destroyed, or transmitted outside of CIA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control personnel and those individuals whose official duties relate to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form and indicate period of custody in the left-hand columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and indicate the date of handling in the right-hand columns.

REFERRED TO | RECEIVED | RELEASED | SEEN BY
Office | Signature | Date | Time | Date | Time | Signature | Office/Div | Date
:---------- | :-------- | :---- | :----- | :---- | :---- | :-------- | :---------- | :----
DDP(TSCO) | B. Bigg | 15 JUN 1970 |  | 19 JUN 1978 | | |  | 
DCI/OLO | Scott Brichidg | 15 June 1979 | | 19 June 78 | | | | 
Al/C (CY) |  | 19 JUN 73 |  | 194578 | | |  | 
DDO/2500 B. Ligg |  | 20 JUN 1970 | | 20 JUN 1978 |  | | | 
Breckincidge or Hakaistsen |  |  | | | | | | 
DO/7500 |  |  | | | | | | 

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this form is detached from Top Secret material it shall be completed in the appropriate spaces below and transmitted to Central Top Secret Control for recors.

DOWNGRADED | DESTROYED | DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)
:----------- | :---------- | :------------------------
TO | BY (Signature) | TO |
BY (Signature): | BY (Signature)
OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE | OFFICE | DATE

FORM 26 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
6-64 (OP-1)

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION (40)

---

14-00000

DEFECTORS NOSENKO

TAB | TITLE | DATE
:--- | :----------------------------------------------- | :-------
1 | Report on: Yurily Ivanovich Nosenko, Soviet | 2 Apr 64

| Attachments:
| 1. Memo for Record from David E. Murphy, Subject: | 2 Apr 64
| Discussion with Deputy Attorney General on
| Nosenko Case
| 2. Memo for Director of Security from Lawrence R. | 3 Apr 64
| Houston, Subject: Parole Status of Defectors
| 3. Memo, Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO | Jan 75
| Letter for Mr. Richard Helms from J. Walter | 20 Oct 69
| Yeagley, Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko
| Letter for Mr. Raymond F. Farrell from Richard | 9 Oct 69
| Helms. Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO
| (Forms 1-125 and background data attached)
| Letter for Mr. Louis Wienckowski from Frank E.. | 24 July 69
| Bartos, Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich Nossenko
| Letter for Mr. Raymond F. Farrell from Victor R.. | 18 Jul 69
| White, Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSSENKO
| Routing Sheet from Chief, SR Division to | 13 Feb 64
| DD/OS
| Memo for Mr. McGeorge Bundy from Thomas H. Karamessines, | 11 Feb 64
| Subject: Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko
| Memo for US Intelligence Board Members from Marshall | 12 Feb 64
| S. Carter, Subject: Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko
| Newspaper clipping: Nosenko's Account Disputes
| Charge by Soviet
| Newspaper clipping: U.S. Lets Swiss and Red Envoys | 15 Feb 64
| talk to Defector
| 4. Mene for Acting Chief. Support Branch from Jack | 12 May 64
| M. Bauman
| 5. Meno for Special Agent in Charge District Field | 10 Jul 64
| Office from Victor R. White, Subject: LESNIK, George
| M. (Emergency Instructions Regarding Custody of)

---

14-00000

TAB | TITLE | DATE
--- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------
 | Memo for Headquarters from John D. Noble, Jr., | 1 Jul 64
 | Subject: LESNIK, George M. (Emergency Instructions
 | Regarding Custody Of) with Attachment: Emergency
 | Instructions (2)
 | 6. Memo for the Record from John M. Maury, | 5 Aug 69
 | Subject: Briefing of Key Congressional Contacts
 | on the Yurly Ivanovich Nosenko Case w/att
/2 | Nosenko's Request for Political Asylum | 4 Feb 64
2. | Secrecy Agreements and Financial Arrangements | 21 Apr 69
 | Between the CIA and Yurily Ivanovich Nosenko
3 | Memo for General Counsel from S. Breckinridge, | 31 Dec 74
 | Subject: Office of Security Reports on PARAGON,
 | NOSENKO, AELADLE, CELOTEX I and II and MOCKINGBIRD
4 | Memo for General Counsel from S. Breckinridge, | 13 Jan 75
 | Subject: Nosenko
 | Attachments:
 | 1. Memo for IG from C. W. Kane, Subject: Yurily | 9 Jan 75
 | Ivanovich Nosenko;
 | 1A. Memo for USIB Members from M. Carter, 12 Feb 64, | 12 Feb 64
 | Subject: Yurily Ivanovich Nosenko
5 | Questions and Answers Concerning the Treatment of Soviet | 
 | Defector Nosenko
5 | Memo for the IG, Subject: The Nosenko Case | 67
 | Attachment:
 | 1. Summary of 1967 Document Which Outlines the
 | Nosenko Case

---

14-00000

IDENTIFICATION: Yurily Ivanovich NOSENKO

 NOSENKO, Yurily Ivanovich, a Soviet
 KGB officer who defected in 1964 and
 was subsequently involuntarily con-
 fined in the U.S. by the Agency for
 a period of approximately three years.

BACKGROUND : NOSENKO first contacted Agency per-
 sonnel in Switzerland in June 1962
 and subsequently defected in January
 1964. NOSENKO was brought to the II.S.
 and after a period of relative freedom
 he was involuntarily confined in
 April 1964. From April 1964 to
 August 1965, he was confined at an
 Agency controlled site in Clinton,
 Maryland. From August 1965 to
 October 1967, NOSENKO was confined
 at Camp Peary, Virginia. In October
 1967, he was returned to the Washington
 area, given increasing amounts of
 freedom until he was given total free-
 dom in April 1969. NOSENKO became a
 U.S. citizen in April 1974. NOSENKO
 was employed by the Agency, as a
 consultant in March 1969 and continues
 under contract to date. His present
 salary is $23,500 per year.

APPROVAL : (1) The legal basis to confine NOSENKO
 against his will was discussed by
 Mr. Richard Helms, DD/P, and others with
 the Deputy Attorney General on 2 April
 1964 (Tab 1). On 3 April 1964, the
 Agency General Counsel, Mr. Lawrence
 Houston, advised the Director of Security
 by memorandum that such confinement was
 proper (Tab 2).

 (2) There are a series of letters from
 the DDCI, DCI and others to various
 agencies, including the Department of
 Justice and the White House, covering
 the period 1964 to 1969, evidencing
 awareness of these agencies of the
 NOSENKO affair (Tab 3).

 (3) The conditions of NOSENKO's confine-
 ment were established by the Office of
 Security (Tabs 4 & 5).

---

14-00000

RESULTS : By memorandum dated 2 October 1968,
 the Director of Security forwarded
 two reports to the DDCI summarizing
 the results of the NOSENKO case to
 that date. The reports are voluminous.
 One was prepared by the Office of
 Security and the other by the FBI.
 Both reports conclude that NOSENKO
 was a bona fide defector. A draft
 memorandum attached to this file,
 dated 21 October 1968 and prepared
 by the CI Staff, raises question
 regarding NOSENKO's bona fides
 and challenges the above two reports.

TERMINATION : NOSENKO continues under contract to
 the Agency. He is brought to Washington
 periodically to consult on matters
 germane to his background and experience.
 Various reports are available in the
 files of the Office of Security which
 detail financial aspects of this case.
 No final accounting has been made since
 the project continues.

COMMENTS : (1) While the Office of Security files
 do document the rationale for the original
 confinement of NOSENKO, they do not
 document the rationale for his continued
 confinement over so long a period of time.
 A memorandum dated 5 August 1969 states
 that various congressional staff officers
 were briefed on NOSENKO and states that
 concern for his safety, as well as con-
 cern regarding his bona fides, prompted
 the prolonged confinement. (See Tab 6)

 (2) Office of Security files document
 a period in 1969 during which a mail
 cover was placed on NOSENKO.

 (3) During the above period, NOSENKO
 was allowed a pleasure trip to Florida.
 During this trip, Agency personnel, with
 apparent Headquarters approval, obtained
 the services of prostitutes. This
 apparently occurred on at least two
 occasions.

---

14-00000

FILES : Office of Security files on NOSENKO
 are maintained in the following
 locations:

 OS/SSD (Contact - Mr. Charles Phalen)

 OS/SAG (Contact - Mr. Bruce Solie)

---

14-00000

SECRET
EYES ONLY

April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Discussion with Deputy Attorney
 General on Nosenko Case

1. Mr lielas, Mr. Houston and Mr. Murphy met with
 the Deputy Attorney General and members of his staff to
 discuss subject case. Present from Mr. Katzenbach's
 staff were Messrs. Foley, Yeagley and Reis.

2. Mr. Helms explained the Nosenko case briefly
 and indicated that shortly we would be faced with what
 we at least considered to be two problems on which we
 would like the advice of the Department of Justice.
 First, we would seeon feel compelled to begin hostile
 interrogation of Nosenko in order to arrive at the truth
 with respect to his mission for the KGB and we wondered
 what the legal position would be in circumstances in
 which we detained Nosenko against his will for this pur-
 poso. Second, we would have to be ready after determin-
 ing that we could obtain no additional information fros
 Nosenko to deport him. We had thought of taking him to
 Germany and transferring him to Soviet custody in Borlin
 where this has been done a number of times in the past.

3. There was some discussion of whether deportation
 to another country might be a consideration. Nr. Helms
 explained we would probably face publicity problems in
 deporting to a third country of the kind we would en-
 counter if he were free in the U. S. Nr. Helas noted
 there were many items of information which we and the
 FBI realize are of no significance because of the file
 holdings we have but which an unscrupulous newspaper man
 could use to create mischief. This aspect was then dropped
 and it was the consensus that Berlin was probably the best
 place.

4. The question of the basis for detention was again
 raised and related by Mr. Foley to the conditions under
 which Nosenko is in this country. He is here as an "ox-
 clusion and parole case" which means he has not been
 adaitted and has been paroled to the Agency which is
 responsible for his while ho is in this country. This

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

14-00000

SECRET
EYES
-2-

 parole can be interpreted to mean parole to a specific
 locale which would provide some justification for our
 detaining him for questioning. It was then pointed out,
 however, that if he said he wished to leave the country
 to return to the Soviet Union, technically we would not
 be able to detain his further. In this event, we would
 bo faced with the need to deport him quickly and quietly
 and for this purpose the immigration warrant of arrest
 and deportation was probably the best instrument.

5. Mr. Katzenbach asked Mr. Foley to check into
 this and Mr. Foley will in turn contact Mr. Houston.
 Mr. Houston will in turn discuss the problem with CIA
 Office of Security officials to get the background of
 their liaison with the INS on these matters.

6. Mr. Heles thanked. Mr. Katzenbach for his assistance
 and we departed amid some jovial banter with respect to
 "The Spy Who Came in From the Cold" about what we expected
 to happen to him when he started to climb over that "wall"
 in Berlin.

David E. Murphy
Chief, SR Division

SECRET
SSLY

---

14-00000
:
3 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT:
Director of Security
Parole Status of Defectors

e/sB
OGC 64-0903

:
1. On 2 April 1964 we had a discussion with the Department
of Justice or the status of aliens whose inspection by I&NS is deferred
upon arrival at our request and who are then paroled to this Agency.
It was the position of the Department of Justice that we were responsible
for taking any action necessary to carry out the terms of the parole.

:
2. As you know, a basic parole agreement was executed by the
Attorney General and the DCI on 10 February 1955. After setting up
conditions for authorizing parole in any one case, the agreement states:
"After parole of such aliens, the Central Intelligence Agency will assume
responsibility for care, supervision and control of a kind and degree it
believes consistent with the internal security needs of the United States
during continuance of their parole status." This means that the
responsible Agency officials must take the minimum action necessary
to protect the internal security needs of the United States. The word
"minimum" is not necessarily a limitation. It merely means that good
judgment must be used as to what kind and degree of action is necessary.

3. The agreement further provides that upon completion of the
parolee's intelligence or operational purposes in the United States or if
internal security reasons so require, the alien will be removed from
this country through arrangements made by the Agency and, in such
case, the Agency will inform the Service in advance of each proposed
departure.

Kawrence RitHouston
LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON
General Counsel

cc: DD/P
C/SR

SECTET

---

14-00000

January 1975
SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. Information that NOSENKO had defected and was in the United
States in February 1964 was known to appropriate agencies and articles
had appeared in the public media.

2. NOSENKO was in the United States under an I&NS parole as
the responsibility of CIA. The FBI was fully advised of the presence of
NOSENKO in the United States and interviewed NOSENKO on several
occasions in March 1964. The United States Intelligence Board was
also formally advised on 12 February 1964 concerning the defection of
NOSENKO. On 14 February 1964, NOSENKO was interviewed by Soviet
in the presence of I&NS and State Department officials
officials/and NOSENKO reaffirmed his previous request for asylum in
the United States.

---

14-00000

Assistant Gen
INT SECURITY DISION
( Mr. Richard Helms
Director
SECRET

Department of Justice.
Washington 20530

October 20, 1963

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C. 20505
Dear Mr. Helms:
Re: Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko
(ER 69-5003/1)
R

Reference is made to your letter dated October 9, 1969,
concerning the above case, in which you urge the concurrence
of the Attorney General in your proposal to have the above-
named alien admitted for permanent residence in the United
States in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 of the
Central Intelligence Act of 1949, as amended.

The Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization has
informed me that on the basis of the records of his Service
and the information furnished by you, and in the absence of
any other evidence adverse to the alien, he concurs in your
proposal that the alien be permitted to enter the United
States for permanent residence under the authority of the
foregoing statute.

Upon the basis of all the evidence received for consid-
eration and your statement of recommendation and approval
which carries with it your determination that the entry of the
individual concerned is in the interest of national security
and in the furtherance of the national intelligence mission,
I concur in your recommendation that the admission for perma-
nent residence of the subject alien be authorized under the
provisions of Section 7 of the Central Intelligence Agency
Act of 1949, as amended.

Respectfully,
For the Attorney General

SECRET
Assistant Attorney Genelal
EXEMPT from automatic
and declasification

---

14-00000
SECRET
9 CCT sen
ER 69-5003/1

Mr. Raymond F.. Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C
Dear Mr. Farrell:

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

Pursuant to the anthority granted under Section 7 of
the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended,
I approve and recommend for your approval the entrance
of subject into the United States for permanent residenca
since his entry is in the interest of the national security
and wesential to the fürtherance of the national Intelligence
mission. In accordance with previous correspondence in
Section 7 cases, it is understood that you will present this
matter to the Attorney General for his approval.

Since his defection in February 1964, the subject bas
provided valuable information to this Agency and he will
continue to be of value in the future,

Subject has been investigated abroad and here over a
period of five years and has submitted to a technical inter-
rogation. The question of bona fides is a continuing one and
should any information be developed definitely disproving his:
bona fides, it shall be made available to your Service and the
Attorney General.

:

SECRET
FROM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
31001
2016
==End of OCR for page 141==