14-00000

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDE

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILMED
JUN 3 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

104-10215-10212

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, European Division
Chief of Station, WH/Miami

Chief of Station, Madrid
PCK
debriefing of CC-4276
Cuban Medical Personalities, Pro and Anti-Castro

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

References:
A. MADRID 0937
B. WH/MIAMI 7277
C. DIRECTOR 029809

1. The following was prepared by
2. The information below was acquired through interro-
gation of CC-4276, Mario Enrique Eugenio MARTINEZ
Delgado, M.D., a Cuban refugee and former resident of Havana
City who left Cuba on 22 December 1969. Subsource is a medical
doctor who was employed at Havana Psychiatric Hospital (Mazorra)
from 1959 to December 1969.
201-02-2391-

a. /Dr/Jose Angel BUSTAMANTE O'Leary
(201-022396), Psychiatrist, studied medicine at
Havana University in the same class as subsource's
father-in-law, Dr. Enrique CASUSO Casuso, M.D.,
employed as an orthopedic surgeon at the Havana
Psychiatric Hospital. According to subsource's
father-in-law, Subject was very active politically
during his university studies; he belonged to the
Student Left Wing (Ala Izquierda Estudiantil) at
Havana University, which organization followed PSP
directives. When Subject had completed his medical
studies, he directed his political activities at
the National Medical College and controlled the
College for several years prior to 1959, during
which years he was able to select the presidents of
the College.

Distribution:
2- C/EUR
2 C/WHD
2 COS, WH/Miami ....continued

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
OSMA 26227 20 May 1970
CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER
2012022396 SECRET 65-6-38/4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET OSMA - 2-6227

b. Subject is President or Director of the
Neurophysiology institute (formerly Higher Nervous
Activity Institute), Academy of Sciences: subsource
thinks that Subject is also Professor of Medical
Psychology at Havana University. Subject is a very
well trained psychiatrist and has always enjoyed
great prestige as such; nevertheless, he has always
been reputed to have very low morals, and in medical
circles is "famous" as a woman chaser. He is widely
reputed to attempt to seduce his female patients and
his colleagues' wives. Major Bernabe ORDAZ
Director of Havana Psychiatric Hospital, considers
Subject to be a vulgar political schemer utterly
lacking in personal prestige among Cuban "new"
Communists; Ordaz has stated that he considers that
Subject wants to control Cuban psychiatric practice
for his own personal benefit.

c. When Castro took power, Subject surprisingly
abandoned the Immediate Action medical doctors' party
and joined the recently organized Revolutionary Medical
Party; Ordaz did not join this party until 1960.
In medical circles, Subject is reputed to collaborate
with the DSE in brain-washing activities, but subsource
had never seen any direct indications of such
collaboration.

d./Dr/. Armando DE CORDOVA ,Psychiatrist,
employed as a professor at Havana University, is
a good psychiatrist about 70 years old who has always
been a leftist but is not the type of immoral person
that Bustamante is. De Cordoba and Bustamante travel
together to almost all the psychiatric congresses
held abroad; according to Major Bernabe Ordaz, the two
of them would like to take over the Havana Psychiatric
Hospital, and base their desire on the fact that Ordaz
is not a psychiatrist. In subsource's opinion, they
will never be successful in replacing Ordaz, because
Ordaz enjoys the backing of both Fidel Castro and
Celia Sanchez, who are good friends of his.

e. Subsource has known a Dr. Edmundo GUTIERREZ
Agramonte, Psychiatrist, since 1959; Gutierrez is
Director of the magazine of Havana Psychiatric Hospital
and attends psychiatric congresses held abroad. He is
a competent psychiatrist and has an office located on
Calle 23, corner of Calle 18, Vedado, Havana City:
In subsource's opinion, he is antiregime although he
speaks in favor of the regime when with proregime
persons, and against the regime when with antiregimo
persons. He does not belong to the PCC cell at the
hospital and is not a militiaman. In an assembly held
at the hospital in 1969 with the express purpose of
increasing the number of members of the PCC cell, no
one proposed Gutierrez as a possible aspirant. Gutierrez
is about 50 years old and was married about February 1969

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET OSMA 26227

f. Dr MI GNAGARAY, whose first
name subsource thinks is Ruben, worked at Havana
Psychiatric Hospital (formerly Mazorra) prior to
1959. He is proregime but not an extremist, and
does not appear to be "willing to die for the
regime". Mignagaray was proposed as an aspirant
to the PCC cell at the Hospital, in an assembly
held in 1969, but stated that he had a defect
consisting in the fact that he was in love. Subsource
did not know whether he was accepted as an aspirant.
In mid-December 1969, Dr. Cristino Cabello, employed
as a psychiatrist at Havana Psychiatric Hospital,
told subsource that Mignagaray had told him that he
(Cabello) would have to take over Mignigaray's ward
because he was going abroad to attend a psychiatric
congress; subsource could give no further information
on the congress or Mignagaray's date of departure.
Mignagaray is described as a light-skinned mulatto,
about 5'9" tall, weight about 160 pounds, 60-65
years old, brown eyes, greying hair, married; subsource
thought he had three children.

g. Dr. Lino Bernabe FERNANDEZ Martinez,
Psychiatrist, joined the anti-Castro counterrevolutionary
forces in the Escambray mountains a few months before
the Playa Giron invasion; he was arrested shortly
before said invasion and sentenced to 30 years in
prison. Subsource had met him when both were students
at Belen High School; their friendship continued at
Havana University, when both were members of the
Havana University Catholic Group, and later as members
of the Movement for the Recuperation of the Revolution
(MRR). Subsource took leave of Fernandez the day that
the latter joined the anti-Castro counterrevolutionaries,
and never saw him again. When subsource visited his
brother-in-law, Enrique Casuso, held first on the
Isle of Pines, then at La Cabana and later at the
Guanajay Jail, he habitually asked for news of
Dr. Fernandez; the information he received made him
believe that Fernandez is one of the most respected
prisoners because of his bravery and equilibrium.
Fernandez was mentioned as an example of integrity.
Other prisoners such as Dr. Andres CAO, Juan
BUSTAMANTE , and Antonio GARCIA told
subsource that Fernandez' attitude had not varied.
Fernandez' wife, Emilia LUZARRAGA who
frequently visited subsource professionally (subsource
was her psychiatrist), also told subsource that
Fernandez' attitude was firmly antiregime: 'Luzarraga
is also antiregime.

h. Vicky ANDRIAL, a friend of Emilia
Luzarraga's who sometimes accompanied her on her
visits to subsource, is married to Dr. Armando
Pita, M.D., aka "Manduco", who is incarcerated at the
Guanajay Jail. Subsource thought that he had been in
jail since before the Playa Giron invasion; he had
belonged to both the Havana University Catholic Group
and the MRR. Subsource's brother-in-law, Enrique Casuso
and Vicky Andrial both told subsource that Dr. Zaldivar
continued to be unyielding in his antiregime attitude.

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPAICH SECRET OSMA 26227

i. Vicky Andrial lives in Miramar, Havana,
,
with Iliana ARANGO the wife of Rino PUIG
imprisoned at La Cabana since 1961; subsource did :
not know the length of Puig's sentence but did know
that he had refused to accept "rehabilitation".
Andrial works at the Canadian Embassy in Havana.
Arango also works at an embassy in Havana, but subsource
did not know which. Both Andrial and Arango are anti-
regime and teach the catechism to children at Reina
Church, Havana City.

3. Further questions on members of MARTINEZ' wife's
family, per References B and C, are being asked and answers
will be forwarded when available.

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING INSTRUCTIONS TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2 on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records,
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation. If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RIDIAN
FROM: PROPER FILE NO

TO: ALL ADDRESSES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED
TO ROOM
NO OFFICERS INITIALS

5 APR 1970
RID/FI FILE TITLE

ABSTRACT FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
INDEX DOCUMENT NUMOF?

AHSTRACT: 201-022376
SPACE HOS 10 1-3: Hiiting to to 3/28/72 indicates this file only contains information
REGISTIY FILE TITLE:
(
44-00000

DISPATCH PROCESSING ACTION

CLASSIFICATION MARKED FOR HOLXING
SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division NO INDEXING REQUIND BEFEsthet
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
DO. Base/Chicago) Chief, DO

Chief of Blation, Madrid PCK
Cubah Doctor Bibly Involved with Ransom Cases MICROFILM

For your information and possible investigation,
Francisco BOTET Carrion, DPOB: 14 April 1936, Havana, Cuba, engineering technician who arrived as
refugee in Spain on 30 January 1970, produced the following story:

During the first two weeks of January 1970,
Source's father, Jose F. BOTET who still is in
Cuba told him that he had met in Havana a Dr. MOLINA
who WA a physician who has been residing in Chicago,
Illinois for the past 20 years. MOLINA told Source's
father that he had come to Cuba to see the psychiatrist
BUSTAMANTE (Jose BUSTAMANTE O'Leary, 201-022396?)
who Havana rumors said has been involved in helping,
home way or other, Cuban political prisoners in
La Cabana, BOTET's father recalled that MOLINA had
A brother who was just finishing a prison term
(he supposed for counterrevolutionary activities) and
quessed that MOLINA's visit was related to this fact.
MOLINA would not confirm this, nor did he reveal what
means the used to enter Cuba. At the time of Source's
departure, 29 April 1970, MOLINA was still in Havana.
Unfortunatoly, Source could not recall MOLINA's full
name, but remembers having seen him briefly in New York
In 1051. MOLINA is age 63/64, white, 5'8" tall,
170 lbs.

8, In view of the growing number of cases involving attempts
to ransom Cuban political prisoners, it may be that MOLINA is
playing an active role in the release of his brother and possibly
others. If the BUSTAMANTE concerned is BUSTAMANTE O'Leary,
the Frusted headshrinker of the regime, then this report may
indicate that ho is cooperating, with or without regime knowledge,
in obtaining the release of certain political prisoners.

Distribution:
2- C/WIND
2 Cos, WII/Minni
2 -DO/Base, Chicago
Cunlige

SPATCH SYMBOL AND FILMBER DATE
OSIA 26188 24 April 1970
