14-00000
104-10182-10052 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WIROQUE

201-233427
VOL. IC
INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
|---|---|---|---|
| 27 JY78 |  | DAN HARDWAY | Dan Hardway |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM: RID/
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO | ROOM | DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
---|---|---|---|
1. DeF |  |  |  |
2. CAT |  |  |  |
3. F/West |  |  |  |
4.  |  |  |  |
5. AF/5 |  |  |  |
6.  |  |  |  |
7. RI/CRO |  |  |  |
8. RIDIAN |  |  |  |
9. / |  |  |  |
10.  |  |  |  |
11. RI/Files |  |  |  |
12.  |  |  |  |
13.  |  |  |  |
14.  |  |  |  |
15. SIF |  |  |  |
16. RID/EF |  |  |  |

TRACE ABSTRACT
PEQUEST INDEX
DATE MICROFILMED

FORM
12-59
6100 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

MICROFILMED
FEB 12 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.

4. still I wonder whether the move wall than he's worth. This is a handful for hep.

Tou darly tor!
7-7. Please designate the decernent from the
classification SECRET

SEC
Ein. berger
A1/5
RC 358

FILE TITLE
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
201 - 233477
DOCUMENT DATE
DOCUMENT NUMBER
TOMAR 1961 ACLA 00491

SECRET
M

14-00000
DISPATCH
TO
Chief, Africa Division

INFO
CLASSINICATION
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

FROM
Review of WIROGUE Project ic Date
New Position in Congolese Air Force

ACTION REQUIRED
Supocit of WIROGNE as indicated are
REFERENCES
a. AD-29127, dated 12 March 1931
b. ACL-12, dated 17 November 1960

DATE
O. DESK ONLY

RE: 4330EXYONE!
MARKED SA INDEING
NO INDEUNG REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY
MICROFILMED
FEB 12 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.
1. This dispatch is to inform Headquarters of the main develop-
ments and problems concemming WIROGNE to date, and to set forth in de-
tail Station thoughts and flans concerning

2. WIROGUE, in his contacts with Robert B. Guthman, and in the
last two weeks with Lester E. Salvack, has always presented a multitude
of idea which include a stromy element of violence, rapher or furt plain
larceny. In spite of being given a flow, , he has pensated in de-
siring a gun, When it was rentioned that the these were har, te ani
that a pistol or rifle was in uifition a dan crous thing for the Congolece
to find on a white mun, he said that that wis all right, & paccine fun
would do. He even suggested the formation of a special force of mites.
with himself as the lealer, miturly, to "Tight the Conjolere in ce
of trouble " we concur with the description of cou in para 5. Hof
3. except for the mount to obt in the best results from Li to is om devices to implement sent, ! ten create cove problems then he snowers, His security corretoresa is not cutetunding from an orow.tion:.l point of view.
Control is see ingly best when "TROGU IPOGUM can tala over Lia problem elemc 4: Tre ment men tervis and discuss them with the cuce officer. The station hus found: Jesiputlo Vo meet him with great frequency thanhtofore and to provide mer sling ( (rather than arr), interest, encourageme. ent but all guidance, uni apply a steady checkrein to what are mostly rather wild ineus
Attachmen 1 cmont is clear exile o. the peo 1780306 send sends to undertime Merte it on hic cmnd: the secure repregents in such citumsions.

3. tule and responsibility,te msich coment in Der sena.sens" is fully mor financial We financial misadventures In addition, money icaves ruch to be desired
cerning RO 30's s "propensity "prop for lized by this station. Có recan briefly, he spent his acney Lavisal u uer ar arrival, vented an exe: mont he didn't need, beatter aiden severul storen for which he wis not yet driving larre- era apart Large Chrycier (in spite of being told at the time far too cospicuous), Then naving ferleted the original 34000 Commei to him, he requested his 3000 housin allomance in one lump sum, He now acce to the questias he will receive the housing allowance "Esthe dribbles" Gia wonis) but but still feels is that he was told he would get it in a ipsum. : for little to sher her his initial
Setting up a business, al even if provided wit. Lil necessary equipment he could : robbly not fo followziyou without aniitional cinarsial The Station Duels that no me how much money he is provilel, H would not to me ato financifficulties or at least sreri all that he hui avuilable. him
Cn 4 March 19, O telephoned and wished someone to meet siitely. He explainei, ning bofore he had me::

*EMPOT, Paul Arnold MAJ
Approximate the meetin
Core Air Force
cut 3)

INSM
FORM
1057 53
USE PREVIOUS EDITI
REPLACES FORMS
51-29, 51-294 AND S
WHEN ARE OBSOLETE...
261-233477
PT10-25

CLASSICATION
CONTINUED PAGE NO
1 of 3
105 530
14-00000
DPD?

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

habits, dimer cosplus fonci thân Pich 100 looming and Sestern (ACOUS ically referred to PC as "the ajor and said that he didn't remember his nice. Later, in spite of being briefed otherwine, continued to fail to obtain names of people with whom he delt.) was to Leet PIERAT the evening of March at 1700 20 discuss the yossibility and details of his becoming administrative liai- son officer under corur ct to the Congolese Air Force FIERROT is interested in developing his com cadre of instructors, both for flying and mechanical work, to develop further the embryo group of 150 cadets currently more or les ready for flying training,
i
5. At meetings held 5 and 5 Larch WIROGUE supplied the following details concerning his new jobs he was to meet the Linister of National Defense ai interim, Fernand KABADI, on 7 March to sign a contract. Ee finally dia meet KAJADI (whom 100 cows only as H. Le Ministre) on 9 March but no contract was yet signed. As of 15 March WIRCOUE had not yét signed a contract but this is pending, he tells us, any day. (A copy of this contract will be forwarded to Headquarters when obtained) The tems of the agreement include, he st teu, that he will provide through his European contacts at least three pilo: instructors and three mechanic instructors within thirty days. (Thirty days from when is an open question) Hore instructors will be needed at a later date, the possible total number being set at ten, five for flying and five for mechanical instruction. These instructors will be paid 20,000 Belgian Congo Francs a conta plus 10,000 BCP bonus. HIROOUR will receive 25,00% BCF and 10,000 50F bonus each month, wish housing to be supplied in all CURES If the instructors have filico, family transport in addition to their om will be provided by The Congolese Covemment. In addition... medical cave and a fifteen day vacation each year is to be provided The work week is to consist of a 5 day week,
5. WIRCGUE hus said that he is totally dependent upon KUBAPK support to supply the needed instructors. He also feels he must provide documentation to prove he is an ex-captain in the German Army and is quite ancious concerning this point. (Answered by part 3, Ref 1.). WIROGUE also feels that the instructors should be other than PEPRIMT in order to better back up is cover story, Bince PBPRL instructors might point. the finger of suspicion in his direction. Che or two PEPRLD candi- dates, however could be included providing a proper cover story were provided WIRCGUE needs names of candidates as quickly as possible, though a dumny list of names "to whom he has written" can be supplied if either PIERROT OF KADI become too insistent. All candidates must be French speaking. In addition, WIRODJE needs a good 35 mm, camera and feels that this was promised to him, with other equipment, and though his targeting has shifted he still has great use for it. Currently WIRCGUE has one of the station beica's on short loan in order topirotogrash the Color port facilities for PIERACT.

6. Recruited instructors should be provided a means of outside contact with the Station separate from FIROGUE, which could be implementei if needed, at a later date. The actual hiring and correspondence rela- ting to their contracts should be sent over to WIRCOUE as though he were handling the entire matter himself on behalf of the Congclese government. The addrers which should be used for all corres: ondence on an overt basis is incluied with this dispatch as attaciment 3, with the title of Lajor preceding the name provided in Attachment A of ACLW-192.

7. With a set salary from the Congolese Goverment, it is WIROGUE'S wish to commence repayment of the $4,000 loan made to him for his business. Also, this particular situation could be fairly short-lived in view of United Nation's offer to the Air Force to assist in Congolese Air Force training. It is obvious that PIERROT and the Congolese Covemment are trying to develop several sources at once to guarantee training for their.. embro Air arm, and the final outcome is difficult to determine The Station is also aware that PIERROT and KALADI could be using WIROGUE at this juncture to obtain instructors for the air force, but might ease him
ENLOSESTION
こくぶ
SESSA AND
'
CLASSIFICATION
SBCELT

PAGE NO
CONTINUED
2 of 3
14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
ACLA-491
of their own accord 1.cer on, either deeming his rot worth keewing be- cause he is not a profe sionsi airman, or bec..use he will have done something to antagonize them. Also, the Station or Headquarters may deem it advisable to esse him out of this job, as Headquarters has suggested in Ref A, after he has provider in entree for putting some instructors on the scene We believe this situation represents a worthwhile gain, however, if HIROGUE does obtain the contract as presently constituted.

8. Attachment C provides some information concerning Paul Arnold PIERROT and the Congolese Air Force which was provided by the Air Attache, Leopoldville, and which has already been reported through their channels. PIERROT is obviously trying to develop a training program and build up the Congolese Air Force from several sources at once, and if several of these sources provide the desired aid it is debatable if his own program (with WIROGUE) would become very extensive or eve:: be imple- mented. It is also possible that WIROGUE's role in the training picture could shift at any time. We feel that at this time we can only go along with developments as they occur and try to realize the maximum benefit from the situation Headquarters will be kept informed of any changes in the situation, and be provided more specific data when avail- able.

9. In all fairness to WIROGUE, it should be pointed out that until recently the station has not had the time to properly target WIRO- GUE As he appears to be untrained in KUTUBS and KUCAGE operations, he requires a great deal of case officer time, an item which is in short supply in this station. We believe WIPOGUE may develop into a worth- while asset, if the time and attention he requires can be spent on him, however. The station is taking the appropriate steps in this direction.
Lester #salvack
Lester i, SALVACK
1.
16 March 1961
Attachments: 3, h/w
Distribution:
4-Eqs, w/attach

except for
neaylat
the
evre or tus
"Shings for roleich
mould have no
Candidate M
örler
261-233477
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO
FORM
1957 530
USE PALVIOLIS EDITION
REPLACES FON:
451234 AND 31 29
SECRET
X CONINUED
3 of 3
(4)
Di
Β.Ρ. 2949
Leopoldville,
Republic of the Congo
SECRET

INDEX
ATF 2
ACLH-49
SECRET
.CS COPY
Attacment B
IP

MICROFILMED
FEB 12.1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.

IL Mar.
201-233.

14-00000
If
Ashment C

SECRET
SUBJECT: Paul Arnold PIERROT - Background Information provided by
Air Attache, Leopoldville
:
1 N' DOLO airport is currently being evacuated by the UNO.C
forces and turned over to the Congolese government for use by the
Congolese Air Force There are some 150 cadet's who have received some
training and are considered ready for advanced training, but as of this
time, have nowhere to be trained PIERROT has made extensive efforts
to obtain aid from many sources to train these cadets The AIRA re-
ports that FIERECT has requested aid from the Belgians, the British,
United Nations, and asked the AIRA to request aid from the French for
the Congolese-Air Force About 30 cadets are in training in Tunisia at
the present time. Cn 11 March the AIRA recommended aid be extended to
the Congolese Air Force, but under the auspices of the United Nations,
2 PIERROT also reported 11 March that he had 6 Koth and 9 Har-
vard T-6 aircraft being delivered near the end of March, and asked if
the United Nations Command would allow them to enter the Conge: He
even offered to let the planes remain under U.N. control.

3. PIERROT is a mulatto and claims to have a white grandmother
in Dallas, Texas He was trained by the Belgians and claims to have
flown C-47's and T-33 jet planes, though he has not been on flying sta-
tus since 1956 due to goiter trouble At this time accurate bio data
is not availalbe His assistant is Lt K.J. LEKAN who is reportedly
completely devcted to PIERRCT. PIERROT is personally ambitious and at
one point in the fall of 1960, he approached TFELIDE authorities with
a plan to take over the government if they would help him His plan
was too transparent and weak for any sericus consideration at that
time
INDEX
MICROFILMED
FEB 12 1905
DOC. MICRO. SER.
ATT 3
ACLA-491
16Nkir 61
201-233177
14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
413

DATE
1. 17. MAY 62
SECRET

FROM LEOPOLOVILLE
ROUTING
1 B
2 10
3
4
5
6
MAY 17. 17452 62
ACTION
C/AF 3 COPY ISSUED TO AF CABLE DESK AT 1355 17 MAYY

INFO
ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2
PRIORITY

par CSN 43-43
one copil
IN 36726
IN36726 RB
- PRITY DIR FRAN CITE LEOP 3918
RYBAT WIROGUE'
REF DIR 18718 (OUT 83494)
1. WIROGUE (W) STATED 17 MAY HE LEAVING VIA SABENA 21 MAY..

2. PER PARA 3 REF SHOULD LEOP OR FRAN INFORM W OF DANGER.
NEED CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS FRAN SOONEST. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE
ہے۔
C/S COMMENT: HQS FAVORS FRAN CONTACT FOR WIROGUE IF FRAN WILLING AND
ABLE TO HANDLE.
TSENSITIZED
SECRET
201.233477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SE-CORE-T
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:.
E.N. KORN PATTERSON/jr. CAF/5
5032 1644
DATE: 16 May 1962

TO PRIORITY LEOPOLDVILLE FRANKFURT

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
DESUCITIZED
per CS4
AOOFC/CI, C/F 2, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

ROUTING
1
5
6
362

DEFERRED
ROUTINE.
OUT 83494
CUTS3494

PRITY LEOB INFO FRAN PRITY SITE DIR 10710
RYBAT VI ROGUE AQUATIC

REF: A. LEOP 3885 (IN 34623) RB

B. LEOP 3462 (IN 47511) (BEING RELAYED FRAN)
1. HAS FAVORS FRAN CONTACT FOR WIROGUE (W) IF FRAN WILLING AND ABLE TO
HANDLE. PURPOSE WOULD BE RETRIEVE HIS PRESENT DOCUMENTS IN EXCHANGE FOR
SUBSTITUTE FAPERS, PREFERABLY SUCH AS TOULD PREVENT HIS RETURN TO CONGO AND
AVOID POSSIBILITY FUTURE COMPROMISE TO KUBARK. I SHOULD BE TOLD HIS COMPLETE
COOPERATION ESSENTIAL IF CONTACT TO BE CONTINUED AND THAT WE WILLING GIVE HIM
LEGAL DOCUMENTATION ON THIS PREMISE. FRAN PLEASE ADVISE CONCURRENCE AND
CONTACT PLAN.

2. FYI PETRIEVAL AUSTRIAN PAPERS OF PRIMARY IMPORTANCE. PROPOSE HOLD
DISCUSSIONS FIRST TO DETERMINE W DESIRES AND OUR ABILITY MEET THEM, DEPENDING
ON RESULTS OF TALKS WOULD OFFER W ONE OF FOLLOWING CHOICES DOCUMENT'S IN
EXCHANGE2

A. WEST GERMAN REFUGEE
B. THIRD COUNTRY PASSPORT (POSTSH, CUBAN, DOMINICAN, ETC)

C. HIS ORIGINAL_NOW_EXPIRED_FRENCH_DOCUMENTS.
W SHOULD BE TOLD OF ABOVE ONLY BY FRAN CONTACT. BELIEVE NAY BE EASIER
RETRIEVE PRESENT PAPERS IF HE REASONABLY CONFIDENT SUBSTITUTE DOCUMENTS BE
COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
111-233477
par CSA 43-43
14-00000
ORIG:

UNIT:
EXT 1

DATE:
TO
PRIORITY LEOPOLDVILLE FRANKFURT
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
2.

PAGE 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T
ROUTING
1
5
6

DEFERRED

ROUTINE OUT
CITE DIR
1.710
MORE TENABLE.

34. RECOMMEND W BE TOLD OF DANGER HE FACES IN STAYING IN CONGO VIEW
REF A INVESTIGATION AS ADDITIONAL INCENTIVE TO QUIT CONGO FOR GOOD.

48. LEOP AUTHORIZED CONVERT PROCEEDS OF W CAR SALE AT STATION RATE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: VIEW MALIERE INVESTIGATION, BELIEVED URGENT KUBARK PREVENT
WIROGUE RETURN FRAN AS SUBJ USING KUEARK FALSE DOCS AND STA ALMOST CERTAIN
BE INVOLVED IF ARRESTED.

ADIME
TSD (Borninger by phone)
Phelps (phone)
RELEASING OFFICER
AF/COP
COORDINATING OFFICER
B.N. KORN-PATTERSON
CAF/5

SE-C-RET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
: Copy No.

14-00000..

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ONG ROBERT BOUCHARD
1. UNIT AF/5 1664
EXT 5032
CATE 17 May 1962

TO LEOPOLDY ILLE FRANKFURT
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI C/AF 3

INFO. ADDP, C/CI, C/EE 3, S/C 2

ROUTING
4
2
5
3

PRECEDENCE
6

DEFERRED 7 MAY 94 22 252
ROUTINE

SHGABEN
INITIALS
PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

per mt copy
OUT83997
TO PRITY LEOP INFO FRAN CITE DIR 11029

RYBAT WIROGUE
REF: LEOP 3918 (IX 36726)
SUGGEST WIROGUE BE INFORMED BY LEOP OF INVESTIGATION RISK.

END OF MESSAGE

Aulerton
AF/COPS

RELEASING OFFICER.
DESLASTIZED
per CSil 43-43
EE/G (Phelps-phone)
Igardiner
CI/OG/AF, Cavading draft) E.N. KORN-PATTERSON
CAF/5
COORDINATI

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
1-01-233477

14-00000

1589

ORIG P. Springer
UNIT: F/COP/FI
EXT:
DATE: 24 May 62
5571.

TO

I AYAR
FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
CPAF 3
INFO ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSODE, C/SR 4, S/C 2
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

206

ROUTING
5
6
DEFERRED
32

ROUTINE
UT86480

PRIORITY...
CITE DIR
12520
Bob B
4-43

TO PRITY FRAN LEOP
INFO FROB
RYBAT IROGUE TECH CABEZONE
REF. A. FRAN 0502 (IN 39623)

B.FRAN 0545 (IN 402298
C.LEOP 3955 (IN 39724)
1. REF B APPEARS OFFER PROMISING APPROACH IF CAN BE RECONCILED
REFUGEE

WITH REFA, PARAS 3 AND 4. DOES WILLINGNESS WIROGUE ACCEPT BACK-
STOPPED GERMAN DOCUMENTS MEAN HE NO LONGER OPPOSED REMAINING GERMANY

AGREE PARA 2 REF B PLOYS BUT INCLINED DOUBT SUBJECT WOULD BE DETERRED
FROM RETURN TO CONGO BY THREAT OF ARRFST, OR THAT SUBJECT WOULD
WIND UP CONGO AFFAIRS IN "THO OR THREE DAYS".

2. IF SUBJECT INSISTS HE MUST RETURN TO CONGO TO CONCLUDE GOC
CONTRACT, BELIEVE WE SHOULD ACQUIESCE RELUCTANTLY AND HAND BACK
DOCUMENTS FOR THIS PURPOSE ON THEORY IT BETTER TO HAVE FRIENDLY OR
NEUTRAL TERMINATED AGENT IN CONGO THAN UNFRIENDLY ONE ELSEWHERE.
FOLLOWING POINTS ALSO PERTINENT:

A. NO OTHER KUBARK COMPONENT INTERESTED WIROGUE SERVICES
5. THERE NO FEASIBLE MEANS PREVENTING HIS RETURN TO CONGO
IP HE WISHES.

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
711-23 3477
Copy No..

1700000

ORIG

UNIR
EXT

DATE:
TO
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
:

INFO:
TO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE 2
INFO
ROUTING
4
2
5
3
6

CITE DIR

DEFERRED

ROUTINE
OUT 86480
12520
C. HIS AUSTRIAN DOCUMENTATION, ALTHOUGH EXPOSABLE AS

FRAUDULENT, CANNOT BE TRACED TO KUBARK. (HE TOLD IT "PURCHASED

ON BLACK MARKET").

D. PROVISION OF SUBSTITUTE DOCUMENTATION PRIOR TO SUBJECT'S
DISENGAGEMENT FROM CONGO WOULD FURTHER COMPLICATE SITUATION
AND RENEW OUR INVOLVEMENT.

TELL
3. IN AGREEING TO SUBJECTS RETURN TO CONGO PER ABOVE PARA

THE MA
FRAN SHOULD CAUTION HIM NOT TO CONTACT LEOP AND HIM COME BACK

LAID. IF CONGO BUSINESS CAN BE CONCLUSEA IN NEAR EVTURE.
FRAN FOR NEW DOCUMENTATION AND RESETTLEMENT
SUBJECT SHOULD
TAKE NECESSARY STEPS WHILE FRAN SO THAT NEW DOCUMENTATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE ON HIS RETURN FROM CONGO.

4. LEOP: IF WIROGUE RETURNS, VOID CONTACT BUT CONTINUE MONITOR
ACTIVITIES AND INVESTIGATION.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: SUGGESTION FOR HANDLING WIROGUE CASE.

CHAP B. Fields

CEE
RELEASING OFFICER

CIFOGAP (J. Cavadine in draft)

SR,OPS
Q
TSD (J. Borninger in draft)
FEG P
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
Mo Galler

C/AF/5

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

284
DATE
t 24 MAY 62
TO DIRECTOR
:
FROM FRANKFURT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

PER CSN 43-43
1
2
3
ROUTING
5
6

MAY 24 15122 62
ACTION CHANGE

PRIORLEY

TO
PRITY FRANTO FRAGS CITE
IN 40229A FRAN OSAS

13
TH
CLASS
CA356
24MAY 62

CITE
RYBAT WIROGUE TECHS CABEZONE
C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM
EE TO AF BY WILLIAM PHELPS LE DIV EXT 1858 IN COORDINATION WITH MR SPRINGER
AF DIV EXT 5564.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
211-233477
Copy No.
POC 43KFP029
PP. KEPC

DE UKEPC 10
Play

P-2410002 ZEA
BT

XXXXX ZEA

ZERO FIVE SIX WASH ZERO SIX SIX LEOP
SECRET
PRITY DIR LEOP INFO FROB CITE FRAN 0545
PYPAT WIROGUE TECHS CABEZONE
PRIORITY

1. SECOND LACKLEN/VIROGUE MEET 23 MAY AMIABLE. STATED HIS
GREATEST DESIRE IS TO LEGALIZE HIMSELF. WILLING ACCEPT GERMAN DOCS
IF BACKSTOPPED. CLAIMS HAS MORAL OBLIGATION CARRY OUT. "CONGOLESE
ARMY ASSIGNMENT IN EUROPE" AND MUST. COME UP WITH ANSWERS RE 30
MILLION FRANCS WITHIN 3 WEEKS AND MAIL RESULTS CONGO.
CONGO THEREAFTER FOR 2-3 DAYS CONCLUDE CONTRACT WITH GOC.

2. OUR INTENTIONS HANDLE WAS HARVARD RESETTLEMENT CASE AND ISSUE
BACKSTOPPED GERMAN DOCS. AS FIRST PLOY WILL TELL HIN WE HAVE WORD
FROM VIENNA THAT OFFICIAL QUERY FROM CONGO HAS RESULTED IN DETERMINATION
HIS DOCS PHONEY AND THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY UPON RETURN
CONGO. SECOND PLOY THAT EVEN OLYCKE ASSISTANCE COULD NOT FORESTALL
ARREST SINCE PERIOD HIS WORK FOR US ENDED SEPT 61. WE HAVE NO CHOICE
FOR HIS OWN PROTECTION KEEP HIS AUSTRIAN-AND-CON-GOLESE-DOGS.
SECRET
CEN: 0545 LCAKLEN/WIROGUE 23 W GERMAN DOCS CONGOLESE EURIPE RE
JILLION FRANCS 3 CONGO 2-3 GOC HARVARD DOCS VIENNA ODYOKE NOT
FORESTALL SEPT 61 NO CHOICE
ST
225
201-233477
360
DATE : 23 MAY 62
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TO
:
DIRECTOR
FROM: LEOPOLDVILLE
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
MAY 23 16402 62

ACTION: CAF 3 (COPY ISSUED TO AF AT 1310 23 MAY)

INFO ADDP, C/CI, CDC, C/EE 3, S/C 2
FRIORITY

DESENSITIZED INITIALS

per CSN 43-43
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE
OUT83997
TO PRITY FRAN DIR INFO PRITY FROB CITE LEOP 3955
RYBAT WIROGUE
INFO : FRAN

REF: LEOP 3918 (IX 36726)
CITE DIR 11029

SUGGEST WIROGUE BE INFORMED BY LEOP OF INVESTIGATION RISK.
END OF MESSAGE

Aulerton EE/G (Phelps-phone) Rordner
(Cavading draft) E.N. KORN-PATTERSON
CAF/5
AF/COPS
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
per CST 43-43
Copy No.
201-233477

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ORIG: E- SPREGIT 429
5.
01/2-57
111:4 5032
DATE: 33 MAY 1962

PRTORITY LEOPOLDVILLE FRUNKFORT
771 DIRECTO

CONT:
1.760
272-1
"
RELEASING OFFICE SECRET ATHENTICATING OFFICE

REPRODLOTION BY OTHER THAN THE 1546*ING OFF 15 PROWIBITE.
Dete: (C-J
LEOP M36 13FFC
47) ( 54102
1761
"SECPET CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ORIC DON MUSCH
UNTP 5
EXT :5457
BATE 23 May 1962

TO ' FRANKFORT LEOPOLOVILLE

1172. DIR2CTOR

CONFA 3

INTO : AOPP. C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2
FROM: *FRAZ O
15170 LEOP
15437.
CITE DIRE

REF: PIR 11763 (OT 32235)

CONTRARY SEJECT RETURN CONGO HOT HPT HOT IN VIO-
LATIC TERPICATION AGREEMENT, DID PUT. DISREGARD PHOSISE LAST
SECTION PARI 2.

ENB OF MESSAGE
CLASSECETOS
*C/KE TE
EBLEASING OFFICER

TSE GORUCL- PATTE SOY13, 39546
TSD GORNERINGER-FHONE)
4/5181-241DIF4ER"

CLASSIFI-CAT
SECRET

- AUTHENTICATING OPFICIR
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE 1531NC OFT 15 PROHIBITED
1529
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SKRET
DATE: 21 May 61

ROUTING
1311-44-
2314155
то
FFANXFURT 33-6574LLE

FROM: 1185-0TOZ
413347

27 1.33
FOGUE TECH CAEEZOSE

A,FRAN 0302 (2.2
137 962.31

B;FRHN 0515 {IN 482.997
- 3 1285( IN 397-1. )
133
2. IF SUBST ISTS 0 HE HAS S REUTZ TO COMEUDE COC
4, 3"7"I"" BETTER T3 HAVE FRI 01 NEUTRAL

71183

(11-22

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 404113

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION 733477

REPROOCTION BY OTHER THNN TBE ISUING OFFICE 13 FROHIBITED.
49377.73 734

Copy Ho.

ORG