14-00000
104-10215-10004
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT J. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

COOTET

25 June 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR: Central Cover Staff
ATTENTION : Charlie Danish
SUBJECT : Ross CROZIER
REFERENCE : SAS Memorandum Dated 14 May 1963

1. Referenced memorandum requested the Subject be provided with
military cover while assigned in the Headquarters area for operational
and credit purposes in the performance of his duties with SAS. It is
understood that your office was reluctant to issue the Subject the
necessary military cover because he was physically located in a DODS
office which was under commercial cover.

2. As indicated verbally on 24 June 1963, SAS will move the
Subject out of the DODS area on 26 June. SAS has also requested suit-
able office or apartment space through the Office of Logistics from
which the Subject will operate in the future. Until this property is
acquired, the Subject will perform his duties from his home. Conse-
quently, it is requested that immediate attention be given to providing
the Subject with the necessary military cover. Refer any questions to
O. A. LADNER, Jr., SAS/Security, ext. 5909.

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - SAS/Security

SAS/Security:GALadner:ftk - 25 June 1963
Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, SAS

SECRET
201-168881
14-00000
i

19 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff
SUBJECT : Request for Domestic Cover
Mr. Ross Lester Crozier
REFERENCE : Form 1322, forwarded to your Office,
14 May 1963

1. It is requested that this Office be advised as
to the disposition of our request dated 14 May 1963 for
providing Mr. Ross Lester Crozier appropriate Domestic
Cover.

2. Since security requirements prohibit Mr. Crozier
from being located in the Headquarters Building, he has
been provided an office in the DODS Area. Subject needs
"Cover" as soon as possible, for credit purposes,
employment, etc.

3. Your prompt attention to this matter would be
appreicated.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

cc: DODS

DDP/SAS/PERSONNEL / J. ALBERT HOESERIKCE (19 June 63)
Distribution:
Orig + 1 - Addressee
1 - DOPS
1 - SAS/Personnel
SCOPET

i
201-168881
14-00000

SECRET
REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN TRIPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE
TO : Central Cover Staff DATE
THROUGH:
SUBJECT: Mr Ross Lastex, Crosier 14 May 1963
ENTRY CHANGE

Inclusion of subject on the Subject is currently included on
Domestic Cover List is requested the Dozestic Cover List. For the
for the reason noted below. When reason noted below, it is requested
notified that cover has been es- that
tablished, subject will be specif-
ically authorized and instructed to this employee be removed from
conceal his Agency affiliation. the Domestic Cover List.

the following change be made:
REASON

Request subject be provided Military Cover (Army) while assigned in
Headquarters Area for operational and credit purposes in performance
of his duties with SAS.

Note: Subject was formerly under commercial cover at JMHAVE prior
to January 1963.
COVER (Complete only for new entries)
TYPE COVER TYPE SUGGESTED
IN USE (Specify whether
officiel or non-
official)
IF NO COVER JUSTIFICATION, IF
IN USE NON-OFFICIAL COVER
SUGGESTED

APPROVED BY CENTRAL COVER DIVISION
SIGNATURE SIGNATURE REQUEST ING OFFICIAL
DATE ORVILLE C. DAWSON
TITLE
Chief, SAS/Personnel
FORM
7-58 1322 OBSOLETE PACIOUS Editions. SECRET 201-16871
(36)

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DD/P PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

NAME: CREIER, Ross AGE: EE? April 1963
DOB: 20 June 1922
STATION H23. PRIMARY CAREER CARGER O'T
AND DUTIES: DD/P UNIT: LESIGNATION:

PRESENT GRADE: GS-12 PRESENT T/O SLOT NA
PROPOSED GRADE: NA NUMBER AND GRADE: NA
CIA TRAINING:

PROPOSED T/O SLOT NA
NUMBER AND GRADE: NA
EDUCATION: Wife: Costa Rican citizen, 203: 15 Mar 1913
Son: D03: Sept 1947.5. Citizen.
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: DAU: FOB: 24 June 1951 U.S. Citizen
Spanish (Fluent - writing/reading/speaking)

ASSESSED: DATE: TYPE OF POSITION: RESULTS:

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO CIA (excluding SSU-OSS):
U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force, Tech Sgt. (1940-1945: Intelligence BC)) & (April 46 - Apr 49)
Leading man labor, $12.3% per day, US Naval Air Station, Coco Solo, Canal Zone;
(Jan. 1946-April 1946).

SUMMARY OF CIA-SSU-OSS ASSIGNMENTS INCLUDING PREVIOUS GRADES AND DATES:
Contract and career agent since June 1949 - Intelligence assigments in Costa Rica,
Guatemala, and Jubas (Foreign Intelligence with some Psychological Warfare and
Paramilitary) FI mission with Castro's forces in Siem Maestra (April 58).
Hexico City Jan 59 to May 1960; assigned to PPA-PROP From June 60 to Oct 61;
Assigned FCS TE Oct 1 to Jan 1963. (Case Officer on student project involving
propaganda and area intelligence collection & network operation; CO on press
placement and press collection project).

RECOMMENDED BY: CONCURRENCES:

RECOMMENDATION OF CAREER SERVICE BOARD:

FORM NO.
MAR $7 965 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET 201-16881
(4)
:
14-00000
1. NAME TRAVEL OKLER SECRET

X TDY
-JEOD
PCS
INVITATIONAL
OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO
SAS-473-63
Mr. Foss L. Crozier OFFICIAL STATION OFFICE PHONE GRADE
Washington, D. C. 6576 Career Acent
YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS, THIS TRAVEL
OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL
CONVENIENCE.
ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE
From washington, D. C. to RTC for approximately three (3) days Tot and return.

MODE: Air tourist/ce
PURPOSE: Operational contacts

TRAVEL DURATION BEGIN / END PER DIEM ALLOWANCE AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
DOMESTIC FOREIGN CENTS PER MI.
19 Mar 63 22 Mar 63 16.00 $ MAXIMUM OTHER (See below) NOT TO EXCEED CENTS PER ML
COST BY COM- AS MORE
MON CARRIER ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOVT.
ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS
DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL
HAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONENIP TRANSPORTATION REQUEST $100.00
CASH OR OTHER
DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
SHIPMENT
AUTHORIZATION I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
NONTEMPORARY
STORAGE OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.
SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED 473-63
EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
ACCOMPANIED UNACCOMPANIED CHARGE COST CENTER NO.
LES. AND MOOK LBS. AND MODE 3132-1000-1000

FOLLOW WITHIN & MONTHS ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED DATE SIGNATURE OF B&F OFFICER
NO I YER$100.00 ACCOUNTING DUE DATE
ADVANCE RETURN COORDINATION REQUESTING OFFICIAL
SIGNATURE TITLE & COMPONENT DATE TYPED NAME AND TITLE COMPONENT
SAS/Support
VINCENT J, FISTHAN, Chief
SIGNATURE DATE

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
TYPED NAME AND TITLE COMPONENT
DESMOND FITZGERALD, Chief SAR
SIGNATURE DATE
FORM 540 OBSOLETE SECRET march '63
3-59 PREVIOUS 201-168881 (28-46)
EDITIONS.
MFG. s-ca
14-00000

13 kareh 1003

KELOLANDUM CR: Chief, finance Division
Chief, Staff Agent Accounts Sective

THROUGH : Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT : Detasiposent of Career Agent -
Harold 3. NORMAYA

This is to advise you that Career Agent Harold E.
MORTR3 reassigned ICS froa JHAVE to the Fashington,
5. C. area on 21 January 1963.

BOARD J.
Chief, /support
DDP/SAS/Personnel/John H. Martin/ket (13 Mar 63)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CPD
1 - SAS/Pers
201-168881
