14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING ACTION
SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ΤΟ
Chief, WH Division
INFO.
FROM
Chief of Station, Guatemala City
SUBJECT
C
A
Chief of Station, Mexico City
PBRUMEN/The LIRING-3 Operation
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Action Required: See paragraph 2.
References
:
A.
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILMED
JAN 1969
DOC. MICRO. SER.
ΗΜΜΑ-35905, 27 November 1968
B. MEXICO CITY-8228, 27 November 1968

1. Forwarded herewith as attachment #1 are four reports
on the latest developments of the LIRING-3 operation prepared
by Wallace B. ROWTON and dated 5, 10, 11 and 12 December.
The most important points covered in these reports are as
follows:
a.
LIRING-3 made contact on 5 December with
one Humberto GONZALEZ Vega (no Station traces),
who has apparently been designated by the FAR as
the latter's contact with LIRING-3 in Mexico City.
A description and a sketch of GONZALEZ provided by
LIRING-3 are contained in ROWTON'S 10 December
report.
Continued.

FRe:connection with 201-7983018
Attachments:
1. Reports (4), h/w
2. Letter (1), u/s/c
3. Identity sheet (1), u/s/c
Distribution:
Orig & 2 - C/WHD (w/atts - 1 copy each #1 and #2; 3 copies
sic att: 2
lu attil
att #3)
2 - COS, Guatemala City (w/atts 1 copy each #1 and
#2; 2 copies att #3)

CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND KUMIBER
DARE
ΗΜΜΑ - 36114
27 December 1968
CLASSIFICATION
3
SECRET 201-798301

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
CASPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
НММА - 36114

b. According to GONZALEZ, Identity D, who
left for Guatemala with LIRING-3 and, according to
the latter, was probably executed after a period
of detention, may still be alive and may have made
a "deal" with the Guatemalan authorities. Identity D
had apparently misappropriated FAR funds before
going to Guatemala. LIRING-9's remarks to LIRING-3,
as mentioned in ROWTON's report of 5 December, may
be connected with Identity D's misdoings.

c. LIRING-3 hinted to LIRING-9 that he may
accept a teaching job at the University of Jalapa.
(Such a job was indeed recently offered to him.)
LIRING-9 advised LIRING-3 not to accept this as: he
would much rather send him on a trip to PBRUMEN.
Rit: Guatemala.
A: Guatemala

d. From a letter received from Gustavo
X*COLINDRES Barrios, LIRING-3 gathered that the
BARRIOS brothers (Miguel and Juan Leon) may soon
be released and may, in fact, contact him in Mexico
City. The original text of that letter and its
envelope are forwarded under separate cover as
attachment #2. IANG-inteipicted some remarks
made to hin by Humberto GONZALEZ as another indica-
tion of a possible contact by the BARRIOS brothers
in the near future. LIRING-3 plans to write back
to the address given by COLINDRES and mention that
he is in contact with GONZALEZ in the hope of getting
a reaction from COLINDRES.
:
:
:
:
:
:
2. The Station plans to check further the identity given
R
by GONZALEZ. Among other things, an attempt will be made
via LIKAYAK-2 to check whether a file in that name exists in
The
the archives of the Mexican Ministry of "Gobernacion."
Station may, at a later date, attempt spot surveillance of
GONZALEZ. Meanwhile, any information that can be provided by
the Guatemala City Station to further identify GONZALEZ would
be appreciated.

BARRIOS, Miguel (201-216006
BARRIOS, JUAN Leon
Tradyei
for Willard C. CURTIS
CLASSIFICATION
FORM
8-64 530
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
401
SECRET
CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
3
2 of 2

14-00000
SECRET
AGENT SERVICE RECORD
1. Agent Cryptonyn: LIWAG-3
2. Project: LIF. MINE
3. Agent Recruited By: Wallace P. ECOTON
HEREWITH ATTACHMENT TO
ΗΜΜΑ-37730
21 Aug 69
:
4. Capacity in which Agent Served: Access agent to Cubon Embassy; Informent
on Central American revolutionary groups and activities.
5. Rate of Pay: Sid not receive requiar salary, but was given betieen
3000 and 3500 Mexicar resos per month.(Equivalent to $240 to 280).
6. Other Commitments: cre
!
7. Agent Dismissed By: Leonard S. TOEET, Dismissal effective 1 July 1969.
8. Reason for Dismissal: gent in effect terminated himself, since he failed
to initiate contact with Station after being turned over to TURIST
by ECI.TCK.
:-
9. Security Risss: Lirios una
pintorest in this
case. He krew both :TON and TCHET in alias. No safehouses were ex-
posed to ING-3. LIANG-3 was met once in TOLET'S OF vehicle.
10. SecurityxRisksk
11. Manner of Dismissal: As stated above, no direct dismissal was made, since
LILI.G-3 trcke off contact with the Station.
12. Letter of Termination Signed: No
113. Cost of Termination: None
14. Station Case Officer: Leonard S. TORET
Acting (Signature Freudonyr
15. Chief of Scation: Horace E. IFTT
(Signature Pseudonymy
APPROVED
SECRET
WH CONTRAST APPROVING OFFICER
Sep. 18, 1969
Special Centresting Officer
h/watt il
CS COPY
HMMA-37739
201-798301

14-00000

1. Agent: LIRING/3
:
CONTACT REPORT
ATTACHMENT #1
-HA-36114
5 December, 1968.
:
JAN 1969
:
DOC. MICRO. BER.

2. Date and Site of Meeting:
1100, 5/12/68; Identity
3. Next Meeting: 1700, 6/12/68; Iden A
4. Administretive:
Rowton asked LIRING/3 to rent a small apartment that
they could use as a safehouse, in lieu of
Iden A, for the future. This was not only in the interest
of economy, for for obvious security reasons. Rowton gave
LIRING/3 1,500 pesos as an advance for this purpose.
5. Reports/Information Passed by Agent:

LIRING/3 reported to Rowton that he had dropped into the
LIRING office on 4/12/68 in the hope of running into the
LIRING Chief so that he could mention to him casually the
proposed trip to PBRUMEN at the end of the month. LIRING/3
told Rowton that he did not see the Chief inasmuch as he
was intercepted by LIRING/9. The latter appeared as cor-
dial as on the previous occasion, but this time made a
brief reference to LIRING/3's report. He asked: "Are you
sure you included everything?" L/3 told Rowton that he
replied in a rather puzzled tone, "Of course. Everything,
this is, that I could remember." To which L/9 explained:
"I mean about the 'motivos' of the arrest. It seems there's
more to it than you wrote. We have some interesting data
on that subject. We'll discuss it with you on Friday."
LIRING/3 then reported to Rowton that when he and LIRING/4
dropped in to Identity B on 3/12/68
:
:
:

the secretary of the Director,
Identity C, gave them a message thats person by the name
of Humberto Gonzalez Vega, residing at Calle Manzanillo
42, in apartment 8, had visited Iden B several times
asking for the address of LIRING/3.
LIRING/3 continued to Roston that he attempted to contact
Humberto Gonzalez Vega at the address given on 4/12/68 but
was told by a woman of about 35 years of age with a slight
Guatemalan accent that he was out at the time. She took
L/3's address with interest and suggested that L/3 return
after 1500 the following day in the event Gonzalez did ret
contact him at his home. L/3 told Rowton that he guessed
:
(and hoped that this was "Favel". ۱
LUBU 201-798301

14-00000
:
Subject:
:
:
ATTACHMENT #1
ИПА-36114
10 December, 1963
1
LIRING/3 Report of Contact with Humberto González Vega.

1. At 1000 on 9/12/68 at
Identity A
!
LIRING/3 reported to Rowton
that he had met with Humberto González Vega on 5 and 6 December. He re-
lated that he had gone back to the apartment on Calle Manzanillo on the
afternoon of 5 December, met González and made a date to see him again
on the morning of 6 December. When he returned about 1030 on that day
González' wife said that he had just stepped out to telephone the embassy
of Ecuador. L/3 went out and found González at a nearby telephone booth
and managed to have a relatively detailed chat with him.
2. According to 1/3, González sarted off by saying that he had been looking
forward to meeting 1/3 for some time, since he had heard a great deal about
him from mutual friends. González went on to say that although he had been
away from Guatemala for the past four years, he kept in touch with his
friends there. He dropped the names of Sandoval Alegría, Jorge Torrón and
a certain Avecillas (phon) who he assumed were known to LIRING/3. He con-
cluded his introductory remarks with the statement that he hoped he and
L/3 would become friends, since they could be of mutual help.
•

3. González added that he was making a living selling books and was planning
to open a book store at the University. He indicated that he might be able
to help L/3 financially if the latter were interested in this business ven-
ture. González then stated that he was aware of L/3's arrest and detention
and alleged that he had advance information concerning 1/3's trip to Guate-
mala in the company of Identity D He then asked L/3 whether
he knew the real purpose of Iden D trip. When L/3 replied in a non-committal
way, González alleged thatIden Dhad been accused of misappropriation of funds
and took the trip in the hope of defending himself against these charges.
González then produced a typewritten letter, undated and addressed to himself
and signed by "Cruz", advising him of the charges againstIden D. González
told L/3 that the letter was from FAR headquarters and was received some time
beforelden Dand L/3 left on their trip.
4. González then went on to say that he and his friends were not at all certain
thatiden Dhad been executed, as 1/3 and many other people assumed. He stated
that some months ago Iden D mother in Mexico City had received a letter from
him informing her that he was then at Salamá (phon). González added that it
was not to be excluded thatIden Dhad made some sort f deal with the authoritie:
to save his skin in exchange for services he might perform against Far in the
future.
5. Gonzáñez then cautioned L/3 against indiscriminate contacts with persons
:

14-00000
2.
representing themselves to be from legitimate "revolutionary" movements.
González recounted that he himself had to go into hiding for the previous
two months as a result of his having been exposed to a certain Nuñez who
had arrived in Mexico City with a group of Guatemalan exiles. González des-
cribed Nuñez as a known member of the "Mano Blanca" and a former police
officer ("tercero jefe de la Judicial").
6. González then asked L/3 whether he had made any close friends while in
Guatemala. This, 1/3 felt, was an attempt to smoke out his relationship with
the Barrios brothers (Miguel and Juan Beón Barrios). He told howton that le
evaded the issue by giving a vague reply, to which González replied: "Well,
I hope to have a great surprise for you soon ('alegría')" González then
suggested that they meet again on 12 December and promised to visit L/3 at
his home in the company of his wife, "so that 1/3's and his wife could keep
each other company while they themselves were talking in L/3's apartment."
L/3 told Rowton that he shot this idea down by explaining that althoug his
wife was revolutionary and trustworthy, he preferred to keep any politicial
discussions strictly between himself and González. The latter, then suggested
that he simply drop by L/3's house and that they both proceed somewhere for
a coffee on a suitable pretext.

7. LIRING/3 described Humberto González Vega as a"rather tall"man ( about 1.78)
heavy (about 85-90 k.), apparent age 42, with light eyes ("ojos claros") and
straight ("lacio") black hatr. He drew Rowton the attached sketch for possible
identification.
8. IIRING/3 agreed with Rowton that it was advisable for him to tell LIRING/9
at his next meeting of his contact with González Vega to provoke a reaction
from the LIRING establishment.

Waluton
i
!
i

Wallace B. Rowton
.
t:1.
Voerotic
..

14-00000

HLIMBERTO GONZÁLEZ VEGA

VEGA

40-45としたコン
acto 1.78 1.78
ojis claus
85-90 K.
per nigro lasit
1.

14-00000
22
:
Subject:
ATTACHMENT #1
НППА-36114
11 December, 1968
i
LIRING/3 Report of Contact with LIRING/9 and SIRING/10.
!

1. LIRING/3 reported to wowton at 1300 on 10 December, 1968, that he had
finally succeeded in talking again with LIRING/9. He related that when
he went/the LIRING office as requested at about 1030 on 9/12/68 he was
told by the receptionist that LIRING/9 was still out. 1/3 was asked to
telephone later, about 1300, to check whether L/9 had returned. LIRING/3
telephoned, as requested, a little affer 1300 (in Roston's presence) but
was told that LIKING/9 had not returned. L/3 left a message for 1/9 that
he would come to his office again the following morning.
2. LIRING/3 continued that he reappeared at the LIRING officeebout the
same time the next day ( 10/12/68) and was told this time by the receptiozit
(the wife of LIRING/10's assistant) that LIRING/9 was in. At this monent
LIRING/9 himself emerged from his office with papers in his hand, winked
at LIRING/3. and returned without adduascire fontes late 1/3
was told by the receptionist that L/9 would see him. The following is
Rowton's reconstruction of the conversation that took place between LIRING/3
and LIRING/9, based on L/3's report to Rowton:
!
i
:

L/9:
"Come in. I'm sorry I couldn't see you Friday or yesterday. I
was out of town."
L/3:
"It's alright with me, except that I have a number of things
pending as far as my own plans are concerned."
1/9:
"Well, how are you doing?"
L/3:
"Fairly well. I just received a letter from my good friend, Prof.
Carlo Antonio Castro of the University of Veracruz. He has been
insisting that I go down to Jalapa to see him. He wants to or-
ganize an exposition and also to offer me an interesting position
at the University."
L/9:
L/3:
L/9:
"But would that mean that you would have to stay in Jalapa?"
"Yes, of course, that is, if I accept. It's a tempting solution
to my personal problems. As I told you I'd still up in the air'"
"But I don't think that's the solution. A trip would be much
better."
1/3:
"Yes, but I have to make a decision soon. Also my wife received a
letter from her father inviting her to New York. Here's the
letter. Do you want to read it?"
L/9:
"No. What does it say?"
1/3
"Her father says that he can give her medical certificates to
prove he is very sick so that she can get a visa without any

14-00000
77
2.
difficulty."
L/9: "But as I said before, she shouldn't go to the American Embassy.
Keep her away from it. That would be bad, as I explained last
tice."
L/3: "I'm doing my best, but it's not easy. Things are still up z in
the air with us."
..
(At about this moment in the conversation, LIRTING/1C entered the office,and,
after greeting LIRING/9 rather perfunctorily, carried on the following con-
versation with LIRING/3:)
1/3:
L/10: "How have you been?"
"Rather well, thanks?
i

L/10: "And your wife? Is she recovering from the strain?"
L/3:
"Just about. The nightmare is finally over and she feels better
now."
1
L/10: "Ell I hope you'll come by here often as often as you like.
We enjoy chatting with you."
(After this brief exchange, LIRING/10 left the office.)
L/3:
"By the way, how is your Chief doing? I'd like to arop in to
express my appreciation for the interest he xxwwwi and his wife
showed in helping my wife during my absence.".!
L/9:.
L/3:
"Well, he's not doing too well."
"Ch, another thing. I finally met that Guatemalan 'Pavel' I
!
1
mentioned in my report."
L/9:
"Yes, how did it go?"
L/3:
"His name is Humberto González Vega. He's been in Mexico for scue
time. A former activist in the PTG. You must know him."
L/9:
"Yes.
"
L/3:.
L/9:
"He wants to see me again on Thursday for a more detailed talk."
"Fine. sell, I hope you keep coming around to see us whenever
you can."
3. LIRING/3 commented to Rowton that he felt that LIRING/10's intrusion tad
not been coincidental, and that L/9 had advised him of L/3's arrival before
he himself received L/3 into his office.

Wallace B. Rowton

14-00000
ATTACHMENT #/
ΗΠΠΑ-36114
12 December, 1966
Subject: LIRING/3 Ecceipt of Jetter from Gustavo Colindres.

1. LIRING/3 reportedto Roxton at 1700 on 12/12/68 that he had received
a letter from Gustavo Colindres, a Guatemalan of about 40 years age
whom he had met in the Pavón prison in Guatemala City. LIRING/3 stated
that Colindres is the uncle (mother's side) of the León Barrios brothers,
although he does not have the same name of sra. Barrios. 2/3 explained
that they were born of different fathers. L/3 added that Colindres was
imprisoned some 18 months ago for responsibility in an arms cache dis-
covered in or near his home.
2. The following is Rowton's translation of the original letter waich
C/3 Cave Aowion for copying:
:
:
"I hope that when you arrived in your Mexico, you found only peace
and satisfaction in being once again in the warmth of your home.
Here on the farm we have missed you and felt badiy at not hearing
from the artist and the professor, and nos that I have succeeded in
obtaining your address, I am taking the liberty of dropping your a
few lines. I want you both to keep abreast of what's going on at
the old farm, even though we're still struggling to turn it over to
new owners, but they haven't as yet agreed to the price. I guess
I'll be the last to leave the ship, since I haven't a chance to get
off. The lions are the next to leave their cage. 'Lorenzana' left
a month ago and the Queen left on the 2nd of December. Promise me
that when you take a drink you'll toast the fara and the date that
is approaching.
My best to your wife, kisses to your child.and my best wishes for
your welfare. May this year of strange experiences engrave in your
mind the memori of a friend.
/s/G.Colindres
Guat. 7/12/68

:
:..
Please send your correspondence to me in the name of my wife, Isabel
Donis de Colindres, 5 av. y 7a Calle, lote 6-Manzana 26, Colonia Santa
.The aedenimuspe
Marta, Zona 19, Guat.Cuidad, América. Central. CI MOT CHVUCT.
3. LIRING/3 told Rowton he understood the "lions are next to leave their
cage" to mean that the León Barrios brothers are soon to be released and
that this letter is a signal to him to be on the alert for a contact from
them in the near future. L/3 told Howton that he intended to reply to this
:

14-00000
2.
letter at once, and to take the occasica to mention casually that he
has met a Guatemalan in Mexico City by the name of Humberto González
Vega who seems to know everyone there qrite well. L/3 hopes that this
will provoke some sort of comment from the León Barrios brothers wither
directly or indirectly.
4. LIKING/3 stated that Gustavo Colindres, who is still in the Pavón
prison, obviously snuggled cut this letter through his wife who visite
him regularly. L/3 commented that Colicires told him that he isa faith-
ful FAR member, but refused to belong to the PIG, or even to accept the
financial aid doled out at the Favón prison by Francisco Corado, the PTG
representative there.

Wallace B. Roston
12

14-00000

SECRET

Separate Cover Attachment #3
ΗΜΜΑ-36114
MICROFILMED
JHIN O 1959
DOC. MICRO. SER.
Identity Sheet

Identity :
Suites Harne
Identity В:
Salón de la Plastica Mexicana
Identity C: Sra. Lourdes GOMEZ L. de Chumacero
Identity D: Francisco LARA Barrios
(201-832457)
SECRET

CS COPY

sk att 3
HIMA-36114
201-798301

14-00000
ATTACHMENT #2

CORRE
HOT SUITABLE FOR MICROFILM
Carlos Jurats derei
4. Verkura
Etificie bron Sere
Ot Veracruz Miper B. CORREO AERE
beesika Int
SUDA A
35805
VIA AIRMANI
GUATEMIAEA
SERVA
7
CORRED
AEREO

Sk att 2
HMMA-36114.
CS COPY
201-798301

14-00000
نته

Father Limits chica cosa qui solo
I satisfacción Si ichier ati muers in al color fansiar.

یاه زیر و دست کشته
ن
シュツインス
J
!
シン
all artistin & I finfine, gir uns aufüümid maila de
Uds. y ya que consequi su dirección, and toms la
libertad de Soyals estas Sinzars, qurro que estén al
dia de las noticias de la gransita, sien Lequimor
Juchamd for devarsita a purse dueness o
(12ク
riva
han izgrade at fpecie, to cis quite
últimes atandonar la
dat jaia difuzia مسيلة
ميلاد
C
Se Jeonie
citein fristunt pora s'yar ja javia Souzana
7
salió hace wa mes, la Rigners
نت
mes que tenemos, Pronkene que kell Tomar Minecr
cofee brente fir la finet y la fisha quia
apratima
Me saluda a la Señora, beare ca la
la, más sana is
intinsun for sin
اوزاری
if rival aan di mi
bienestar, Oui iste titsanass
munte al secuerdo che un amige,
esculfam zn
ت
Poù fars

corrupondencia a nobre de m
A
Waitar 14 punt ictih im
:
.:

14-00000
L

14-00000
L
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING ACTION
SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING
TO
Chief, WH Division
X
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
DEFO.
Chief of Station, Guatemala City
ONLY QUALIFIED DESIK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico City
PBRUMEN/LIRING-3 Report
MICROFILM
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
1
Action Required: FYI
References
:
Α.
ΗMMA-35905, 27 November 1968
B. MEXICO CITY-8228, 27 November 1968
Forwarded under separate cover are Xerox copies of the
handwritten report prepared by LIRING-3 and given by him,
per reference B, to LIRING-9. The report was written in two
instalments, the first titled "Situacion General" and the
second titled "Antecedentes" and various other notes.
Rayuad A. Fradya
for Willard C. CURTIS
Attachment:
Report, u/s/c
Distribution:
Orig & 2
C/WHD (w/att - 2 copies)
2 COS, Guatemala City (w/att - 1 copy)
Sc att :1
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CS COFY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ 36115
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
27 December 1968
Εγ
HOS FLA LUMBER
201-798301

14,00000
25/cat
HMMA-36115
:
Citmaison General :...
Ta
201-798301
Durante los dias que peracineli en la Cilda
400 dit te Curup: de policia Tane oportrindad de
Carubies remporaisses con Rolands Ortez Cebolle-
Tut nobre la cituación general de Guatemala es
pecialmente de FIR, por aquel entonces Cesar bicomitin
neo litia sido destituindo y se risiccata numa Cam-
paña de Terrible represion por parte del gobies.
Pay acuerdo con las informaciones se desprende
Je Gignente: da división entre PGTM. FAR
move's una cituación dificil pers also s
hos for dil PGT rimiciaron a este o parasong.
A las files de FAR. a
di
a
20
las de FAR, aunqase.
goberno,
Troridamente el
a los dies apoyar la luchia armada I
PGT
G
lu
de Contingentes en la
incluso i disponer de contingentes.
ma de Zacapa?) lo cierto es que
initiato
montaña (Zona.
provica mas la division of no apoyo en lo son
la linea de FAR isto is a go
de FAR isto is grandes
Conscidos.
meirining que los detalles son bren Cousle
En los sillemes tiempos el PGT
ya
Trata de acondas
dangertian. Coins egemplo doy
ku
mir las
la intación que presincié en Pavoin, Boude il
representante del PGT Trataba de ganar
adenitos entre los palces pertenecientes a FAR
/
:

14-90000

of ricerxioles ay da Coconica-
Ghiz
ay da economica - insistiendo en
diffe
Qi Inia (MillFAP) bra equivoca en
Mucks aspecte
al nis momtrad's
Hombrado
ntral's You Dora Coman lante
Leona
Analne esperaba que el grupo 13.
de nomeintre se aglutinasi.
te
Quicamente.
deberete le
Aesto
esta caputrinación se llevó a cabo, pero
en la práctica se ha demostrado que este
Grips Angue actuando por an eventa anar-

Todas estas Circostanten: divisiones, fal.
riaconfalta de'm.
madurez ideolo-
rica ett. Maw Traido por Consecuencia un.
dibilitamente de la lucha atmada en
Guatemala. A esto Cortonline el fortale
Camerrte Calder dig eines de las ficergas re-
pricinas obra de los morteamericanos. Min
exprcito equipado con las ansers més moder
asesorado y entrenado por ellos, com-
His la situación en
montaña. In Conscenencia de Todo isto
lis sido da des
on de la intensification de la querelle
Urbana. Jos jovenes de FAR lian tenido
que l'ajor a la Cindad y braceri esfuerzed
disesplandes pero anarquicos pas n
20
entrenadotro

mon eri la

:

14-00000
نم
Mection accions que much veces, muerte
bil
Majador Gorden main por ejemplo, jas
Tras indian megatus, ja que
Tradin tensificar la depre-
انایی
ainm aces
Mestor Valli,
den la rapid in
impiden lo
Disn apatondo Con Cuadros valiosos y necisa.
nos. En la conontañcise lian sufrido verlies
miry grandes, la muerte de Mestor
Efigenio, la di Camilo en la Crisdad ito, lean
cocon las acciones de FAR, puer
dibilitats ilis Corenistanción que lisy be
viven en guatemala impic
Jalta de
Sustituésion de estos cuadros. Sa fatta.
fondos para financiamento is imo de les
moblinses mas Grandes, puis acticalmenite
Il diners Tiene que conseguirse a base de
Asaltos a Ampreces: Comerciales, dando por
ricultado commedics calles, que por conseguir
rona Cantidad pequeña luan miento varer
revoluiesuarios.
En cuis charlas con dis Meninaceur de
feon Barios se me briga notar el periti do
negatmo que algunos dspectos de la ayuda
banis representa. De Critrée dinamente
a los enadros que se formaban alla, pues
sefrin dilen, lie las si a veges Ingas estandin
es Cuba se viadaptaban
:
:
1

14-00000

a li olalidad Guatemalteen, o. prends
ou cuelta Conflictos aveces series. El Glur. ple
mas Concrets es el reirente caso de Cesar montes,
destituniks por no haberse mcorporado a
sa realidad de el momento nelliairs.
As prestamala existe un quite materials.
ma;
Cristo tipo de ayuda prrcidente de Chiba;
or 2što los jovenes de FAR rechingan
for iste los Jou
De bibla miratis bli entre ellos de fracasos
obtenidos por los Cinder formados alla of
din supriste ofrecemon-
To Crivano de ayudarlos mcliuso con
lhombres.
1.
Pos abera, liablando francamente,
la lucka en Guatemala se ha debilitado.
fis golpes sufridos han sido muchos of fuertes
extrenca Merilindra una risorganza-
y en de ext

Mac de les over aspecto mis nielices
pena et disanallo de da luclia ammada

14-00000

in optimala es una major comprensión
All sitesen mitsona de Ise pais, y prestors
for do Consiguente la ayuda mas adecuada.
Es visdad que il fortalecimiento de
enta Kiccha pladsed
bera a large plazo, pero pande ella
int arcicesano que la ayuda sea mas efectiva
las opiniones cil
y realista, di acuerdo con las opiniones de
Yes pirmario di Sein Bermos, elementos
is
piastas of
his en Pervicio de intelig
go Flas
AAAAAAAAAAAAA
Cellos Tratajan
Trabajando
Tingo quie deguir
Con las FAR, la especial situación
di Arrifice, inis expirencios personales of
la Confianza que ellos me depont an hou
ha
me busca-
biectio que mantenga mis contactos, esper-
sando por estos dias la llegada de mica
a muy responsable que me.
Kirieng
si con el nombre de PAVEL, para seguri
Trabajando en un sentido pontivo.

14-00000
L
C