14-00000
104-10106-10217
Standard N.Y.B.T.U. Form
CONSULT YOUR LAWYER
DRE SIGNING THIS INSTRUMENT - THIS INSTRUMEN
MORTGAGE NOTE - Individual or Corp. (Street of ont
RETURN TO
JULD BE USED BY LAWYERS ONLY
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MORTGAGE NOTE

$167,429.88
New York, MARCH 2,1978 19

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, We, husband and
wife, residing in the City, County and State of New York,

24
promise to pay to CROUSH-WALKER COMPANY, 48 Alabama Street, S.W.
ATLANTA, GEORGIA (30303)

24
or order, at the offices of Croush-Walker Company, 48 Alabama Street, S.W.
Atlanta, Georgia,
or at such other place as may be designated in writing by the holder of this note, the principal sum of
ONE HUNDRED SIXTY-SEVEN THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY NINE 88/100
($167,429.88) on demand.
Dollarsxx

XxandrosexpaidroxxxxxxxxxxxxxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

2/

IT IS HEREBY EXPRESSLY AGREED, that the said principal sum secured by this note shall become due
at the option of the holder thereof on the happening of any default or event by which, under the terms of
the mortgage securing this note, said principal sum may or shall become due and payable; also, that all
of the covenants, conditions and agreements contained in said mortgage are hereby made part of this
instrument.

Presentment for payment, notice of dishonor, protest and notice of protest are hereby waived.

This note is secured by a mortgage made by the maker to the payee of even date herewith, on property
situate in the Borough of Manhattan, City, County and State of New York,
and commonly known ascand by Street Number 163 East 71st, Street,
New York, N.Y. ( 10021)

This note may not be changed or terminated orally.

In the presence of:

Title No.
14-00000
STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF NEW YORK
On this 2nd
seventy-eight
to me known to be
instrument, and they

{
MARCH
day of
before me personally came
and
✓ RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
in the year nineteen hundred and
the individuals described in and who executed the foregoing
acknowledged to me that they excented the same.

STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF
On this
}
:
day of
in the year nineteen hundred and
before me personally came
to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at
that he is the
of
the corporation described in, and which executed the above instrument; that he knows the seal
of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so
affixed by order of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed
thereto by like order.

Dated
(Husband and Wife)
OL
24
48 Alabama Street, S.W.,
ROUSH-WALKER COMPANY
Atlanta, Georgia.
(30303)
MORTGAGE
March 2,1978
$167,429.88
The land affected by the within instrument
lies in Section5 in Block 1406 on
Map of the County of New York
the
Lot 26. RECORDED AT REQUEST OF
:
NY NG.10012
116 Smelcvon Street
AND RETURN BY MAIL TO:
Mario E. BRED, ENG.

STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF
}
ss.:
On this
day of
to me known to be
instrument, and

4
in the year nineteen hundred and
before me personally came
the individual described in and who executed the foregoing
acknowledged to me that
he executed the same.
