2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
UCLASSIFIED
ICKNAL
E ONLY
COI DENTIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: Document Number 988-927 BD
FROM:	for FOIA Review on SEP 1976
	Chief, CI/R&A
	2 C 17
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)	DATE	OFFICER'S INITIALS	PR EXTENSIO	NO. B720	DATE	27-865
	RECEIVED	FORWARDED		24 December 1964
					COMMENTS (Number eadh comment to show from whom
					to whom. Draw a line across calume after each comment.)
1.	Chief, AF	24 Dee 	For Coordination
	7 C 32

2.	Chief, EE	24 PE 24 DEC 	WEC	
	3 D 31 07	1964		DEFERRED

3.	Chief, FE		RID PROCESTING SOO
	5 D 31 07		PLEASE INDICATS HANIO

4.	Chief, NE		Retainin
	6 D 31 07

5.	Chief, WE	30 DEC 1964 MR	Indones a
	4 B 44 05			Destro
					Integra ins
6.	Chief, WH	30 Dec 30 	Records
	3 B 44 03			Recared.
					If Retention of
					Desk Wortung
					This Box

					NOTE: This Document
					of the CS Becu
					Desired Handling
					son Dolr the
					Chun Love
					and the Document Retarze te BID.
7. DDP
8. 3 C 20 16	31 DEC 1954	For Signature and Release
			ut

9.	

10.		BY HAND
		PLEASE CALL

11.	CI/R&A	29JAN	
	2 C 17	1965	
12.	
		
13. PSD 		Eer Printing 201-289248
	56
14.		CI/RA	
15. RID	GB28	CRL	DATE 2

FORM	610 USEDPREOUS	X SECRET	CONFIDENTIAL	INTERNAL	UNCLASSIFIED
3-62	EDITIONS			USE ONLY

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
X
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
ACCOM
PLISHED
TO
Chiefs of all Stations
INFO.
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief, KUDOVE
Warren Commission Testimony - Selected Excerpts
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
FYI

1. The Warren Commission's Report on the assassination of
President Kennedy focused attention on the magnitude of the problem
involved in the protection of the Chief Executive. As you know, it is
our responsibility, overseas and in headquarters, to render every
support possible to the Secret Service in the conduct of its statutory
responsibilities in the United States, and especially when the President
travels abroad,

2. The circumstances confronting the Warren Commission
produced discussion and testimony on various aspects of the problem
of Presidential protection and on interagency operational cooperation,
which normally do not find their way into the public domain. These
include the acquisition and dissemination of information, consultation,
coordination, and operational interchanges. I believe you will be
interested in the attached extracts of testimony given before the Warren
Commission by U.S. intelligence and security officials. Pertinent
Fortions have been side lined. I commend these materials for reading
by all officers in positions of senior responsibility in headquarters and
overseas.
Document Number 988-927 BD.
for FOIA Review on SEP 1976
FLETCHER M. KNIGHT
201-259245

DATE TYPED
23 Dec. 1964
DATE DISPATCHED
2 FEB 190
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
Book Dispatch No. 4726
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
ORIGINATING
100-300-12

OFFICE
OFFICER
CI/R&A Raymond G. Rocca
ROUTING
TYPIST
gwh
COORDINATING

OFFIC SYMBOL
DATE
OFFICER'S NAME

FXT
x746x

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE
RELEASING
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
DDP
HQ COPY DISPATCH.

S-E-C-R-E-T
Diibution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726
AF Division

Abidjan
Accra
Addis Ababa ✓
Algiers ✓
Bamako
Brazzaville
Bujumbura
Conakry
Dakar
Dar-es-Salaam
Freetown
Kampala
Khartoum
Lagos
Leopoldville ✓
Lome
Lusaka
Mogadiscio
Monrovia
Nairobi
Pretoria
Rabat
Salisbury
Tananarive ✓
Tripoli
Tunis
Yaounde

EE Division

Athens
Bern
Frankfurt 2
Nicosia
Vienna

The above listing has been
reviewed in the EE Division.

FE Division

Bangkok
Djakarta
Hong Kong
Honolulur
Kuala Lumpur
Manila
Melbourne
Okinawa
Plamom Penk
(Initials)
The above listing has been
reviewed in the AF Division.

dw
(Initials)
Rangoon
Saigon
Seoul
Taipei
Tokyo
Vientiane
Wellington

S-E-C-R-E-T
The above listing has been
reviewed in the FE Division.
себ
(Initials)

S-E-C-R-E-T
Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726
NE Division

Aden
Amman
Ankara
Baghdad
Beirut
Cairo
Colombo
Damascus
Jidda
Kabul
Karachi
Kathmandu
Kuwait
New Delhi
Tehran
WE Division

Brussels
Copenhagen
The Hague
Helsinki
Lisbon
London
Luxembourg
Madrid
Oslo
Ottawa
Paris
Paris/LCPIPIT
Reykjavik
Rome
Stockholm
The above listing has been
reviewed in the NE Division.
The above listing has been
reviewed in the WE Division.
(Initials)
-2-
S-E-C-RET
(Initials)

WH Division

Asuncion
Bogota
Buenos Aires
Caracas
Georgetown
Guatemala City
Kingston
La Paz
Lima
Managua
Mexico City
Montevideo
Panama City
Paramaribo
Port-au-Prince
Port of Spain
Quito
Rio de Janeiro
San Jose
San Juan
San Salvador
Santiago
Santo Domingo
Tegucigalpa ✓
The above listing has been
reviewed in the WH Division.

(Initials)

-3-
S-E-C-R-E-T
Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

Headquarters Distribution for
Book Dispatch No. 4726

2 DDP 2 C/WE
1 ADDP 1 C/WE/1
1 C/OPSER 1 C/WE/2
1 C/TSD 1 C/WE/3
1 C/CA 1 C/WE/4
1 C/CCS 1 C/WE/5
1 C/SOD 1 C/WE/BC
1 C/CI
1 C/FI
2 C/WH
1 C/WH/1
2 C/AF 1 C/WH/2
1 C/AF/1 1 C/WH/3
1 C/AF/2 1 C/WH/4
1 C/AF/3 1 C/WH/5
1 C/AF/4 1 WH/COPS
1 C/AF/5 1 WH/POA
1 C/AF/6 1. WH/POB
1 WH/Plans

2 C/EE
1 C/EE/G 2 CI/R&A
1 C/EE/K 1 CI/LIA
1 C/EE/SA 1 CI/OPS/AF
1 CI/OPS/EE
2 C/FE 1 CI/OPS/FE
1 C/FE/CH 1 CI/OPS/NE
1 C/FE/HULA 1 CI/OPS/SS
1 C/FE/JKO 1 CI/OPS/WE
1 C/FE/PMI 1 CI/OPS/WH
1 C/FE/TBL
1 C/FE/VNC

1 RID

2 C/NE
1 C/NE/1
1 DC/NE/AA
1 C/NE/4
1 C/NE/5
1 C/NE/6

Originated by: Chief, CI/R&A, Ext. 7468/23 December 1964

SECR-E-T
