104-10177-10047 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ASSIFIRS MESSAGE
SECRET
Background Use Only
RETURN TO CIA
Not Reproduce
S
MEXICO CITY
WH/SA-8
VI. FILE, DDP, WH7, C/1P3, C/IA-2

ECRET 0321302
DIR CITE MEXI 2126

TYPIC LIGRAFT
PEF DIR 75551
86556516

1, FOLLOWING FROM LICRAFT-1: JOAQUIN MIRABAL IS NOT BROTHER OF
Alfredo MiRABAL D'AZ
FORMER CONSUL MEXI, HAS ONLY ONE SIBLING, SISTER. OFFICIAL TITLE IS
ELEGADO DEL MINISTRO DEL INTERIOR EN LA PROVINCIA DE LA HADANA.
HAS AUTHORITY REPRESENT RAMIRC VALDES, ENTER ANY SECURITY OFFICE IN
HABANA PROVINCE, ISSUE CEDERS UNDER VALDES AUTHORITY SEARS ARMY
CAPTAINS UNIFORM AND INSIGNIA. IN 1958: VAS SECCID IN COMMAND OF G2
HAS AT QUINTA AVENIDA AND CALLE 14. MAN IN COMMAND THEN IS POLICE
CHIEF HABΑΝΑ.

2. NIRABAL CLOSE FIREND. VALDES SINCE LOS BEFORE CASTRO TAKEOVER.
IS FROM HABANA. MOTHER REPORTED TO BE CO TIME COMMUNIST. FAMILY HOME
AS ON CALLE COSS, VIBORA, HABANA. IS ABOUT 35 YEARS OLD LICRAFT
FIRST MET-IN 1957 AT WHICH TIME MIRABAL WAS CUSTOMS AGENT IN KABANA
SORKING FOR UNCLE ALSO NAMED MIRABAL. FIRM HAD SEARS ROEBUCK ACCOUNT,
MAY HAVE HAD WOOLWORTH ACCOUNT. MIRABAL ABMITTED TO LICRAFT THE WAS
MAKING LOTS OF MONEY SMUGGLING LIQUOR. PRICE TO 57 HAD HAD A FLINGPAS
POPULAR SINGER, HAS VERY GOOD VOICE. VAS VERT, FRIENDLY WITH GUSTAVO
S

CIS NO YO WELL ANAN CAY CHOREOISTA
CIATES THIS PERIOD WERE SUSPECT T
LICRAFT TO VISIT BAR JUST ESCAPES ::
EN APPARENT PLACE WAS HOSE

3. AFTER CASTRO TAKEOVER MIRALAL WAS ASSIGNED TO ACC.
HABANA PORT, LATER WAS ASSIGNED TO AIRPORT, WAS IN SECURIT WORK AT
LEAST EY 1950, PERHAPS EARLIER. VERY CLOSE FIRENG OF LAPOR MINISTER
MINISTER MARTINEZ SANCHEZ. VIFE WORKED FOR MARTINEZ SANCHEZ

4. "CHICA 30" FORMANT OF LICRAFT IS MRS. ALBERT RECIO,
ELL STREET, GARY, INDIANA, PHONE 938-5055. SHE IS SISTER
14-00000
IN 56516.
05,08
VIFE, DISLIKES MIRABAL INTENSELY BUT DOES NOT DISK AVY MANY A COVE
TO HER SISTER YOULD BE COOPERATIVE IF APPROACHED AFTER ALERTING
EVEMNICA GARCIA PEPE305
PHONE CALL FROM LICRAFT. NEW YORK INFORMANT IS NENICA GARCIA PE
FRIEND OF MRS. RECIO AND OF LOCRAFT, USED TO MARE SHOP BY ASTR
THAT USED BY LICRAFT. LICRAFT WILL CBTAIN HER PRESENT ALONESS

5. SUGGEST HOS ARRANGE TO INTER.IEW MRS. RECE ERS RECIO
PHONES HER. PLS CABLE NAYE TO BE USED BY INTERVIEWING OFFICER.

6. LICRAFT WILL PREPARE STUDY ON MIRABAL. PLS CABLE STIFICO
POINTS VISH COVERED.
SECRET

51BR
