14-00000

104-10180-10138
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND R CORD SHEET

FROM. | COMMENTS
: TSD/SAB
| 4200 Aain. Bldg.
TO | ROOM
NO. | DATE
OFFICERS
INITIALS |
| RECENT date seen
PRIORITY
1. AC/TSD/TA |
2. TSD/SRS |
3. |
4. |
5. WH/4/FI | Coordinated by phone
6. |
7. RI/DP | 1308
L | 23 JU 1950
8. |
9. |
10. TSD/SRS |
11. |
12. |
13. |
14. |
15. |
16. |
17. |
18. |

RECORD COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS | AUTHEN CATING OFFICER
NAME BY PHONE | OFFICE | NAME | TITLE
Ralph Seehafer | WH/4/FI | Flenderson 03 LA COLIN C. REID | C/TSD/SAB
| RELEASING OFFICER |
NAME | TITLE
103 BOREST K. CRAVEN | AC/TSD/TA
ENCLOSURE | FILE NUMBER
ABSTRACT 08
INDEX | 2014274049)
DATE MICROFILMED | DOCUMENT CATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER
HO-3523
!
FORM
1-66

14-00000
10
FROM
: Chief of Station, avara

: Chief, KURIOT
SUBJECT: DC: AQUATIC/Operational
SW Supplies for AYTRE
REFERENCES:

: JAVA - 1999, 17 June 1960
PRIORITY

:
201(274040)8
CATE

23 JUN 190

AF: 403-CCK C
HARS FOR INDE GIG
NO MOCKS REQUIRED
IRGENDIG
LY QUALIF2120830LY
1. The S supplies and instructions needed to establich two-way SW
correspondence with AMIRE 1 are transmitted herewith. We realize that some a
the instruction forms and supplies which are being transmitied are duplicates
of those sent to the Station in support of other operations. Powever, in order
to facilitate the handling of each operation, the supplies for ench are
furnished as a complete unit. This will preclude the need for berroving from
one agent's supplies to outfit another.
99
2. ANIRE) will write to the Cuse Officer, using carbon system $39337.
Two unused sheets of carbon #39337 should be itsued to the agent for this
purpose. Fe should be told to store them separately to avoid accidental loss
of his writing systera. His carbon systea is developed by means of tablet
#30607. A supply of the developer material, in quantities sufficient for
training purposes, accompanies this dispatch.

3. According to the Wil operational plan, SW messages written by ANT1
vill be mailed to accommodation addresses in various Latin American countries.
In accordance with that, KURIOT will provide the appropriate (Will Field Stations)
with the materials necessary for developing the operationel messages.
99
4. AMERE l will develop the SW messages he receives by means of pill 99
#58838. Ne should be issued (twenty pills $58838 for that purpose. It is
recommended that the agent be told to hide his developer materials in a safe
place. This should not present much of a problem vecnuse (the pills are s०११
umall. We do not generally recommend that (pills be camouflaged as medicines.199
Even in cases where the SW ingredient(does have a bona fide medicinal usoge,
the concentration represented by the SW pill would usually be in excess of the 99
cormal dosrge, and thus there would be a danger of having an unwitting person
use them by accident-qqIf the Cuse Officer feels that for operational reasons
it is desirable (to camouflage then as medicines) they should only be kept in a
bottle which is clearly marked FOR REAL US ONLY) 99
5. According to the operational plan, the Jace to egent S presages will
be prepared for the Area Division by KURIOT at Headquarters. The Area Division
will pouch the & pessages es "blank" sheets of stationery) 88 the appropriate
Field Station for application of the cover test nad)Lailing
99
6. The Al Case Oficer should faatliarize himself with the
accompanying supplies and instructions before any attempt is made to trein and
issue supplies to the agent. Experience has shova that it is advisable to plan
for two or three chort (2 hour) agent training sessions scheduled over e period
of days, rather then to attempt to cran the training into one long session.
Lic-associating
24
7. Special attention should be given to planning the cover correspondence.
It is usually recommended tiet the agent use false use and return address on
his SW messages to the Scetion, thereby dic-associating hinsels) completely
from his si reports once they are in the tail channel.24This requires that the
correspondence be fictional, and entails a certain count of skill on the part
of AIR Plin fabricatin; apparently (macent correspondence)24tie have found
that the use of a false postal identity) frequently provides the agent with
considerable psychological recosurance during the course of the operation.
1
ror 536
13-37
USE PRESS.OR.
SIPLICES FOR
5131-224 AN3 81 23
GHICH ARE OBSOLETE.
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PRIORITY
3. The cover/
/t
3523
12
1 of 3
24/PV

14-00000

34/
FAICII
SECRET
FOUN 323
3. The cover correspondence must in no way appear to be different from
the bulk of Fail crdinarily fourd in the camel being used. It should contain
ae taforation which could be viewed as suspicious in any way. The external
aspects of the correspondence must be fascent fa all aspects if the St is to
be expected to provide any level of security.

9. We have found that the meaty of my system lepeat: rearly
exttrely on the care with which it is used. Please stress the need for care-
ful writing techniques in your agent training sessions.
!
10. The folloving supplies and instructions are transmitted in support of
the AR operation:

a. Standard Form($1059-CWT) which describes in detail how to
write (with a carbon shee

b. One carbon sheet ห 12010) labeled (DS-ONSTRATION CARBONIS
is to be
used to demonstrate the principles of carbon) veiting. The development
process for this system can be carried out in the agent's presence.

c. One (bottle (100 ml.) of developer (20609)which will develop
the demonstration Carbon writing.
wa. Instruction (Form/H-16029) describing the development of the
(DEMONSTRATION CARDON
49

e. (Three carbon sheets #39337) The one Inbeled (PRACTICE CARBON
is to be used in training and is to be retained by the Station. (Two)
are to be issued to the agent. The agent should not be allowed to
vitress the development of this system, nor should he be shown the
pessage after development.

f. Instruction Form I-36037) specific instructions for the
development (of carbon system #39337)

g. Wenty pills $30607, to be used to develop practice and real
messages written th carbon 139337)
ان
h. Two practice messages written with AMERE's ingoing SW system
which he should use to practice his development technique.
94
usefto
1. (Twenty-five pills
$58838)winich NCRE
will use to develop the
Sk messages he receives. Two or three for these pills) should be used
158838) which ARE
in training Twenty of the remaining pills) should be issued to the

3. Instruction Form Form
(developer #56338.)

k. One copy of the "Station Maintenance of Sit Supplies form.
l. Miscellaneous items such as (cotton,
itens generally useful for S processing.

11. You will note thet two different kinds of(carbon sheets) have been
submitted with the supplica. Ore is labeled (DEMONSTRATION CARBON) This should
be used in the practice session only. It should be used to demonstrate (carvon A
writing techniques to the agent. This system can be developed in the agent's
The other Carbons submitted (130337)) constitute the agent's operatioral
