13-00000

TOP SECRET

Appendix A

Memorandum for the Director of Central Intelligence
from J. C. King, 11 Dec 59

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
 INTERNAL	CONFIDENTIAL	SECRET
 ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Ltr from Admiral burke

FROM:
DD/P

TO: (Officer Designation, room number, and
 Building)
	DATE	OFFICER'S INITIALS	RECEIVED	FORWARDED	COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
 to whom.  Draw a line across column after each comment.)
1.	C/WH Division	  jqk
2.				1. Admiral Burke sent this 
 over to the Director on the
 afternoon of 17 March and the
 latter handed to me. I do not
 believe it requires a reply
 but pass it to you for any
 value it may have.
3.	C/WH/4	    RMDjr.
4.	Witle wnday
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
C.W.H. Cuba file
10.
11.
12.
13.

 SECRET	CONFIDERA	INTERNAL USE ONLY	UNCLASSIFIED
 USE PREVIOUS 311
 EDITIONS

13-00000

TOP SECRET

CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
17 March 1960

Dear Allen:

Enclosed is a memorandum my staff pre-
pared containing some suggestions which might be
useful to you in your work. Naturally, I do not
agree with quite all the comments contained in the
memorandum, but I know that you will forgive
the impatient young lad for his desire to make sure
no opportunity is left uncovered.

Warm regards.
Sincerely,
Arleigh
ARLEIGH BURKE

The Honorable
Allen Dulles
Director of Central Intelligence

Enclosure

PERSONAL - TOP SECRET

314

13-00000

Appendix C-2

CNO Correspondence with Department of State
and NSC:
2) Letter for Gordon Gray from
 Arleigh Burke, 16 Mar 60
P. 21
313

13-00000

TOP SECRET
CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS

TOP SECRET
16 March 1960

Dear Gordon:

Enclosed is a copy of a
memorandum on U.S. action in
Cuba which may be of interest
to you.

Sincerely yours,
ARLEIGH BURKE

The Honorable
Gordon Gray
Special Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs
The White House

Enclosure

TOP SECRET
314

13-00000

SECRET
Vic:

U.S. Action in Cuba (3)

1. The recommendations contained in the paper on "U.S. Actions in Cuba" were
intended originally to provide the broad outline for a carefully laid out
program for causing the Castro regime to be replaced by a friendly government.
It was intended that State would logically control and coordinate all aspects
and provide the guidance as to the specific actions required of the other
departments of the government. The paper was not interpreted in this manner
by those who received it and the search appears now to be for specific actions
which can be used to accomplish the end desired.

2. The following are offered as possible specific actions which can be taken
in support of our position on Cuba - You might desire to have 00 inject
these items into the NSC meeting, 16 March.

a. JACE - Chairman, or the Chief of the U.S. Delegation, attempt to have
a delegation other than U.S. introduce a motion for the board to consider the
gay in hemispheric defense resulting from the Cuban situation or for the
Board to recommend that the OAS study the influence of Kommunism in Cuba..

b. Commercial - Oil companies are not being paid by Cuba. State could
request the oil companies to point out to the governments who produce the
oil the effects on their economies of the loss of the Cuban market.

c. Schools and War Colleges - The Services could include in courses for
foreign officers the effect on hemisphere defense of the establishment of a
Kommunist dictatorship in Cuba.

d. Commercial - Do Latin Americans hold stock in the expropriated properties
in Cuba? If so, State could request the companies concerned to include in
their dividend mailings, information pointing out the effect on the companies'
earnings and the stockholders' dividends of expropriation of property without
compensation and, for the oil companies, non-payment for oil delivered.

e. State in conjunction with CIA, publish a weekly or bi-weekly letter
documenting the actions of the Castro Covernment for the previous period.
Included would be:
   (1) Violations of human rights.
   (2) Kommunist trends and actions.
   (3) Dictatorial and undemocratic actions.
315
 TOP SECRET

13-00000

SECRET

 -2-

f. Al Services -- Prepare and distribute speech material suitable for
inclusica in various types of addresses. Material should cover:

   (1) kommunistic aspects of present Cuban Government.
   (2) Threat of Kommunism in Cuba to hemisphoric defense.
   (3) The dictatorial aspects of the Cuban regime.
   (4) The Cuban regime's actions against the basic human rights.
   (5) The strategic importance of the Guantanamo Kaval Ease.
   (6) The logic of the firmness of the treaties by which we hold
Guantanamo and the formal commitment of the Castro regime on taking power
to honor Cuba's international commitments.

Distribute this material to the Services and to their Leagues and
Associations for maximum use in public specches.

g. IADB - Have General Skaer, as Director of the Staff, IADB, inject
into the monthly intelligence briefings at the IADB information on the latest
Soviet Bloc actions and the progress of International Kommunism in Cuba.

h. State, in conjunction with CIA and the Service intelligence agencies,
hold special briefings ace cach month on the general situation in Cuba with
special emphasis on the kommunistic aspects for the following:

   (1) U. S. officials of the OAS and UN.
   (2) J.S. personnel of the Staff of the IADB.
   (3) Official U.S. personnel in Washington having cuties involving
close contact with Latin Americans.

i. All Services provide special briefings on a one-time basis along the
line of h. above for officers and enlisted personnel of units proceeding to
Caribbean or South American ports.

j. Navy endeavor to have a good reporter or author prepare a story con-
taining the Navy's views on Guantanamo for publication in a national magazine
with wide circulation in Latin America.

Page 2 of 3 pages

316
TOP SECRET

13-00000

TOP SECRET

k. Have- Accept Dr. Merchant's offer in his letter of March 10
to acluire on a complete briefing of State Departant activities
vis a vis the Cuban situation in an effort to prod State to move faster.

1. State -- Brief all individuals and groups of U.S. Nationals going to
Latin America on the Kommunist treat in Cuba for further dissemination to
host country personnel.

Very respectfully,

J. E. POND, JR.

Page 3 of 3 pages

TOP SECRET

13-00000

Appendix D

Memorandum for Assistant Deputy Director (Plans) -
Action from J. D. Esterline, 2 May 60

P.31

322

13-00000

EYES ONLY
SECRET

COPY
2 May 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director (Plans)  - Action
SUBJECT  : Liaison with United States' Agencies on JMARC Activities

1.  This memorandum contains information for the Assistant Deputy Director 
(Plans) - Action.

2.  The attached chart on liaison with other agencies of the United States'
Government on JMARC activities is restricted to those contacts that are made
on a regular basis, such as the weekly policy meeting with the Department of
State, and to offices which, we must contact quite frequently to solicit their
support, such as the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

3.  As you know, infrequent contacts are made at various other levels of
the Executive Branch including:

   a.  Brigadier General Cushman, Vice President Nixon's military
    assistant.

   b.  NSC 5412 Representatives.

   c.  Certain United States' Senators and Representatives, particularly
    Senator George Smathers of Florida.

4.  In the early stages of JMARC we had almost daily contact with Rear
Admiral S. B. Renkin, USN, who was the action officer on the movement of two
radio transmitters and construction of the broadcasting facility on Swan Island.

5.  Through Raymond Millard (Mallard?), the Agency is in close touch with
CINCLANT at Norfolk.  Robert Reynolds, Deputy Chief, WH/4, has briefed selected
senior officers on JMARC 4.  Mr. Reynolds is the designated CIA alternate for
the CINCLANT force under provisions of the Contingency Operations Plan for
Cuba.

Attachment:
Chart mentioned in paragraph 2.

J. D. ESTERLINE
Chief, WH/4

SECRET
EYES ONLY
333

13-00000
```
 OFFICE  NATURE OF DISCUSSION  CIA REPRESENTATIVE   FREQUENCY  
   STATE DEPARTMENT 
 Office Inter-American Affairs (ARA)   Policy Col. J. C. King Weekly 
 (Mr. Rubottom) 
 Cuba Working Group (State, USIA)  Overt Programs  Robert Whedbee  Daily 
 (Chaired by Ambassador Mallory) 
 Consular & Security Affairs  Passports for Aliens  Mr. Pennington (OS)  As required 
 (Mr. John Haynes) 
 Office of Intelligence & Research  "Talent" Matters E. A. Stanulis  As required 
 (Ambassador J. Lampton Berry) 
 Inter-departmental Defector Committee  Cuban "Defectors"  Robert Whedbee  As required 
 Latin America Task Force  Program Coordination  Paul E. Oberst Weekly 
 (Chaired by John Hill (ARA) 
   DEFENSE DEPARTMENT 
 Office of Special Operations  Defense Support E. A. Stanulis  As required 
 (Capt. Burns B. Spore, USN)  Robert Young (CC) 
 Office of Special Operations  Briefing  J. D. Esterline Weekly 
 (Capt. Burns B. Spore, USN) 
 Collateral Support Section,  Cover Robert Young (CC)  As Required 
 Office of Naval Intelligence 
 (Cdr. Frank Day, USN) 
 Operations Branch, Collection  Cover Robert Young (CC)  As required 
 Division, ACSI (Army) 
 (Col. Stewart McKinney) 

 SECRET 
 EYES ONLY Continued 
```
333
13-00000
```
 OFFICE  NATURE OF DISCUSSION  CIA REPRESENTATIVE   FREQUENCY  
  UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY 
 Director, Voice of America  Coordination David A. Phillips  Weekly 
 (Henry Loomis) 
   IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE 
 Office of the Director  U. S. Entry of Cubans  Mr. Pennington (OS)  As required 
 (Mr. Hennessey) 

 SECRET 
 EYES ONLY 
```

334

13-00000
Appendix F
Richard M. Nixon's Memorandum
on Meeting with Fidel Castro,
19 April 1959

13-00000

RICHARD NIXON
LA CASA PACIFICA
SAN CLEMENTE, CALIFORNIA

July 27, 1979

Dr. Jack B. Pfeiffer
CIA Historian
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Dr. Pfeiffer,

I am enclosing a copy of the summary
of my conversation with Fidel Castro
in 1959, as you requested in your
letter of July 19th.

With best wishes,

Sincerely,
[signature]
Richard Nixon

enclosure, 4 pages
337

13-00000

COPY
COPY
-2-

COPY

whatever it might appear to be at a particular time. It
was also apparent that as far as his visit to the United
States was concerned his primary interest was "not to get
a change in the sugar quota or to get a government loan
but to win support for his policies from American public
opinion."

It was this almost slavish subservience to prevail-
ing majority opinion -- the voice of the mob -- rather than
his naive attitude toward Communism and his obvious lack of
understanding of even the most elementary economic principles
which concerned me most in evaluating what kind of a leader
he might eventually turn out to be. That is the reason why
I spent as much time as I could trying to emphasize that he
had the great gift of leadership, but that it was the respon-
sibility of a leader not always to follow public opinion
but to help to direct it in the proper channels -- not to
give the people what they think they want at a time of emo-
tional stress but to make them want what they ought to have.
I pointed out that it might be very possible that the people
of Cuba were completely disillusioned as far as elections
and representative government were concerned but that this
placed an even greater responsibility on him to see that
elections were held at the very earliest date, and thereby
to restore the faith of the people in democratic processes.
Otherwise, the inevitable result would be the same dictator-
ship against which he and his followers had fought so gal-
lantly. I used the same argument with regard to freedom of
the press, the right to a fair trial before an impartial
court, judge and jury, and on other issues which came up
during the course of the conversation. In every instance he
justified his departure from democratic principles on the
ground that he was following the will of the people. I, in
my turn, tried to impress upon him the fact that while we be-
lieve în majority rule that even a majority can be tyrannous and
that there are certain individual rights which a majority
should never have the power to destroy.

I frankly doubt that I made too much impression
upon him but he did listen and appeared to be somewhat recep-
tive. I tried to cast my appeal to him primarily in terms
of how this place in history would be affected by the courage
and statesmanship he displayed at this time. I emphasized that
the easy thing to do was to follow the mob, but that the right

COPY
COPY
339
COPY

13-00000

COPY
COPY
-3-

COPY

thing in the long-run would be better for the people and,
of course, better for him as well. As I have already in-
dicated he was incredibly naive with regard to the Communist
threat and appeared to have no fear whatever that the Commu-
nists might eventually come to power in Cuba. He said that
during the course of the revolution there had been occasions
when the Communists overplayed their hand and "my people put them
in their place." He implied that this would be the situation
in the future in the event that the Communists tried to come
to power. As a matter of fact, in his attitude toward Com-
munism, both internally and from an international standpoint,
he sounded almost exactly like Sukarno had sounded to me
when I visited Indonesia in 1953. In our discussions of
Communism I again tried to cast the arguments in terms of
his own self-interest and to point out that the revolution
which he had led might be turned against him and the Cuban
people unless he kept control of the situation and made sure
that the Communists did not get into the positions of power
and influence. On this score I feel I made very little im-
pression, if any.

Speaking to him from a personal standpoint I urged
him at the earliest possible moment to bring good strong
men into his government and to delegate responsibilities to
them in the economic and other areas where he presently was
making many decisions. I tried to point out that unless he
did this he would have a workload which would be so great that
he could not provide the leadership and the vision that the
Cuban people needed for the great issues. I put as much em-
phasis as possible on the need for him to delegate responsi-
bility, but again whether I got across was doubtful.

It was apparent that while he paid lip service to
such institutions as freedom of speech, press and religion
hìs primary concern was with developing programs for economic
progress. He said over and over that a man who worked in
the sugar cane fields for three months a year and starved
the rest of the year wanted a job, something to eat, a house
and some clothing and didn't care a whit about whether he had
freedom along with it. I of course tried to emphasize that
here again as a leader of his people, he should try to de-
velop support for policies which could assure economic pro-
gress with freedom rather than without it.

COPY
COPY
340
COPY

13-00000

COPY COPY COPY

-4-

He indicated that it was very foolish for the
United States to furnish arms to Cuba or any other Carib-
bean country. He said "anybody knows that our countries
are not going to be able to play any part in the defense
of this hemisphere in the event a world war breaks out.
The arms governments get in this hemisphere are only used
to suppress people as Batista used his arms to fight the
revolution. It would be far better if the money that you
give to Latin American countries for arms be provided for
capital investment." I will have to admit that as far as
his basic argument was concerned here I found little that I
could disagree with!

He had a rather extended discussion of how Cuba could
get the investment capital it needed for economic progress.
He insisted that what Cuba primarily needed and what he
wanted was not private capital but government capital. He
gave me some rather confused arguments as to why plants that
were licensed and/or owned and operated by the government
would serve the best interests of Cuba better than privately
owned enterprises. I told hìm quite bluntly that his best
hope as far as the United States was concerned was not in
getting more government capital but in attracting private
capital. I explained that government capital was limited be-
cause of the many demands upon it and the budget problems we
presently confronted. I pointed out that private capital on
the other hand was expansible and that he would be serving
the interests of Cuba far better by adopting policies which
would attract it, I pointed out that there was competition
for capital throughout the Americas and the world and that
it would not go to a country where there was any considerable
fear that policies might be adopted which would discriminate
against private enterprise. At this point he, at considerable
length, tried to explain why he had said and done some of
the things which had appeared to be anti-private enterprise up
to this time. Here again on this point I doubt if I made too
much of an impression.

He explained his agrarian reform program in consider-
able detail justifying it primarily on the ground that Cuba
needed more people who were able to buy the goods produced
within the country and that it would make no sense to pro-
duce more in factories unless the amount of money in the hands
of consumers was increased.

COPY COPY COPY

13-00000

TOP SECRET

whose position re the new administration
is different than Mr. Herter's, to go to
Mr. Kennedy in person and seek to get him
committed. It would be very difficult
for State people to try to approach Mr.
Kennedy via Mr. Rusk and Mr. Bowles.

* In his Reader's Digest article of November 1964 Nixon
indicated that copies of the memorandum went to the
three individuals as noted in the text above, however,
in his recent Memoirs, RN, Nixon states that a copy
also went to John Foster Dulles. John Foster Dulles
was technically Secretary of State until 22 April 1959,
on which date he was succeeded by Christian Herter.
At the time of the meeting between Nixon and Castro,
however, Mr. Herter had been acting in Mr. Dulles'
place. Dulles's death occurred 24 May 1959.
- 242 -
 TOP SECRET

13-00000

TOP SECRET

It is with the time; that the Ary Ar
13-00000
TOP SECRET
