104-10175-10152 JUNE 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

29 March 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/CA

SUBJECT: Response to Memo on "Council for Latin America"

The activities of WH/1 touch upon four organizations listed below. There are no other activities as they may concern organizations listed on the CA memo (attached).
29

1. Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana -- Currently budgeted at $60,000 annually, supports in part this organization, which also receives funds (some $950,000 yearly) from HINZE, a German national run with headquarters in Aachen, Germany. The objective of this effort is to help establish model or prototype Mexican organizations designed to alleviate and hopefully to advance the social and economic status of the Mexican campesino.

2. Instituto de Investigaciones Sociales y Económicas. -- The executive director of this organization was formerly associated with the LIEFF project, but he is no longer an active member of this project which is funded at the current rate of $4,300 annually and supports LIFIFT-1, the Station's only agent with access to rightist political organizations.
29

3. Centro Nacional de Estudios Sociales. -- The director of this organization (LISIFER-3) is no longer an active LOFT agent. The LISIFER project was terminated in 1965 and had been funded at an annual rate of some $165,000. The project supported a mass media propaganda effort directed at the middle and lower classes of Mexico and sponsored by a front group of conservative Mexican businessmen.
29

4. American Chamber of Commerce of Mexico -- The vice president of this organization is a current Station asset, LEUFT-1. No money is provided from KOFACE sources to this organization, although LEUFT-1 receives monthly $300.00. The duties of this agent do not directly relate to his

SECRET

SECRET

-2-

Cluster of Commerce responsibilities. LEUFT-1's principal duty is to gather material on rightist political organizations.

N. J. Buchen
C/WH/1

Attachment:
Memorandum

Distribution:
O & 1 - Addressee
ee - INDOREZ Project
ée - LEUFT-1 201
ee - LISIFER-3 201
ec - WH/1/Cr

SECRET
