104-10119-10247 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Memio 16 Dec 1968 regarding informations furnished
by Terenge Winters #55769 RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Subject advised that Aline MOSBY was a newspaperman in SCHAPIRO Do Not Reproduce
office. HUBY, during the past year, had been in the hospital on several
occasions, and one didn't see too much of her. Subject also advised that
HOSBY stuck mostly to the foreign circuit rather than the Embassy circuit.
Subject stated that one of the reasons MOSBY was in the hospital, on one
occasion, was the fact that she had an abortion, according to gossip.

Subject stated that another newspaperwomen in Moscow was Priscilla
JOHNSON. Subject advised that JOHNSON had the reputation of being a fairly
rood reporter and one whom the Soviets kept on a month to month visa basis.
Subject indicated that it was highly possible the Soviets had attempted to
recruit JOHNSON, as she spent a lot of time with Soviet nationals.

Subject was queried as to whether he had ever made an unauthorized
disclosure of classified information in the Soviet Union, to which he re-
plied that he had not disclosed classified information as sugh. He stated
that his cover, which he had used for the period in between State Depart-
ment assignments, was that he was a consultant of the AEC, particularly
to the Joint Atomic Energy Intelligence Committee; composed of AEC, CIA,
State, NSA, Joint Chiefs, and the Armed Services. Subject stated that he
had indicated to individuals, when questioned, that he had done economic
research and analysis in the Soviet field and that he had done this ever
since he had first become a State Department employee. Subject stated that,
among others, he had discussed this with ray Hay HUTCHINS, his counterpart in
the British Embassy. 06/08

Subject was asked for his itinerary on his return trip to the United
States and who authorized the trip. Subject stated that he had long planned
to come home via the Far East, and it was a well publicized plan, lie stated
that when ho left Moscow, he stayed over in Delhi for a week to see if there
were any objections from Headquarters as to his itinerary, He stated that
when he recel ved no instructions to the contrary, he returned to the United
Stales via his previously announced plans and the differences in fares being
borne by him.

Subject departed Noscow 1 September 1960 (1:00 A..); want to Tashkent
sund then to Delhi mere he opent one week, Bangkok, 4 days; Saigon, 6 daysı
Hong Kong, Cays, Tokyo, 5 days; Hawaii, 5 days, San Francisco, 5 days;
Los Angeles, 2 days; Las Vegas, 2 days; Denver, 10 days; arrived Washington
24 October 1960.

12

BR
