104-10171-10138
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
VIA
OFFICIAL DISPATCH
OTRA-105
SECRET
Security Information
CLASSIFICATION
TO: Chief, WI
FROM: Chief of Station, Paris
DATE: 5 February 1953
SUBJECT: SPECIFIC 
OPERATIONAL
Frits (aka Fred) SNECHI
DOC NO.
Reference: State Dept Control Cable 1437, 14 Nov 52, from Bonn

1. On 11 June 52, the Press Attaché of the Paris Embassy wrote us the following esmerenda:

According to French records, Fred SNECHI was born May 31,
1903 in Berlin. He was trained as a lawyer, left army in
1931, and appeared in Paris in 1933. In 1939, enlisted in the
Foreign Legion. From that time to 1940, he was demobilised
in Morocco. He fled to Switzerland in 1942 and returned to
Paris in May 1945. Since that time, he has worked for "Die
Zeit" in Zurich, "Libera Stampa," a socialist daily in Lugano,
and other papers. In 1949, went to work for "Die Welt,"
the British-controlled newspaper in Hamburg. In February 1951,
he was replaced on that paper by a German. At the present
time, he works for "Radio Saarbruecken," as well as for "Der
Bund. He was naturalized French in 1947.

Apparently, he was cleared by SHAFE to cover everything from
the Pyrenees to the Elbe. He did now and then send a report on
the Atlantic Forces. His articles were considered of quality by the
French, and even were translated in the press review bulletin,
"Documentation".

Some time after the articles had appeared, however, a
French official expressed astonishment that SNECHI had been
given such facilities. Lights had as proof to
offer, this official submitted this document to the
French agent of the Counterespionage. He
gave no further derogatory information.
2. We searched our files, found no previous record of Subject, and informed the Press Attaché accordingly.
SECRET
Security Information
CLASSIFICATION
RECORD
RIRI CARD REPRODUCTIONS

3. On 17 Nov 52, the Press Attaché called our attention to
State Dept. Control Cable 1437, from Bonn, dated 14 Nov 52, a copy
of which is attached hereto for your convenience. Basing our re-
quest on the information contained in para I above, and on the
attached cable from Bonn, we submitted queries concerning Subject
to both Bonn and UNBOUND.
4. On 26 Jan 53, we received the following reply from UNBOUND:

Frits (aka Fred) SNECHI, born 31 May 1903 Berlin,
of German origin, the son of Wil and Martha TRELLER,
acquired French nationality by naturalization on 1 April
1933. On 19 October 1933 in Paris 18, he married his
compatriot Helen STRICKEL, born 24 August 1905 in Berlin.
They have one child, born 25 May 1937, of French nation-
ality.
SNECHI joined the Foreign legion in 1940 and was de-
mobilized in February 1941. In 1942, fearing lest
he be forced in a camp in the Templer district, he de-
cided to go with his wife to Switzerland. Upon his ar-
rival in Switzerland, he was arrested for clandestine
border-crossing and interned in a camp at Kurtiný,
(Falcio). Later, he was transferred to a lower camp at
Sierra. During his stay in Switzerland, he allegedly
wrote several articles under the pseudonym "Bacal" in
the Swiss socialist press, notably in the paper "Libera-
zione".

Later in 1945, he returned to France and settled at
Entregas (Sota), where he still resides at 211 Avenue
Pierre Brossolotto. Since 1945, he has had a legal office
at d'Hautville, Paris Vile, where, according to a
normally reliable source, it is reported to have had
contact with Konstanti Yefimov of the Soviet Commercial
Mission (tele - Echo Ltd 11333) as activity Wochen of the
Soviet Information Bureau. The activity of this legal
office is, in fact, almost negligible.

Since 1945, he also has operated an office for the
settlement of disputed claims for the International
Reserve and Relief Committee (I.F.R.C.), 35 Blvd.
Capucines, Paris. He equally is administrator of the
firework and "Salut" of Antwerp, Belgium.

SECRET
Security Information

 SNECHI devotes the greater part of his activity, however,
to journalism. He is a correspondent of various French and
foreign newspapers, notably the Swiss paper "Der Bund." He
is accredited officially to the French Ministry of Information.
He has obtained numerous visas for foreign countries in order
to fulfill his professional obligations.
He has never attracted attention from the political point
point of view, but we suspect him of being identical with an
individual of the same name who belonged to the Swiss "Rota
Japollo" network.
SNECHI is in contact with a man named BURCHHARET (sic -
see para 5 below), now a correspondent of "Der Bund" in
Paris, and who also is suspected of being identical with an.
ex-agent of the "Rota Kepollo."
We are continuing our investigation of Frits SNЕСНІ.

5. With regard to the BURCHHARDT mentioned above by UNBOUND, we
since have consulted with the Press Attaché, who has been able to iden-
tify him as follows:

Head BURCHHARDT, born 9 September 1906 in Lehr, Germany,
presently residing at 105 Bvd. Voltaire, Paris lle, economic
correspondent for "Der Bund," accredited as a journalist to
the Presidence du Consell on 10 February 1945, also works
for the Vereinigten Wirtschafta Dienes of Frankfurt, in
which he is not a serious journalist, but otherwise is a doubtful
individual.
6. On 4 Feb 53, we received the following less complete reply
from UNIC:

Frits (aka Fred) SHECHI, formerly a German lawyer, took
refuge in France in 1933. He has opened a legal office in
Paris and also occupies Hemself with formalities. Until now,
no unfavorable information has been obtained concerning him.
7. We are making all of the above information available to both
the Embassy Press Attaché and to SF. We would appreciate receiving
all possible further derogatory information concerning SHECHI, his
various contacts, and his activities. We would be interested to receive,
in particular, any information to confirm UNID's suspicion that
SNECHI, and/or BURCKHARDT, used to belong to the "Liots Kapollo network.
Distributions
WH: 3
Frankf 1
Bonn: 1
Bruss: 1
Barn: 1
Regler: 5
Lloyd D. Lager
:
201-24225-1
D 2015
FEATURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

14-00000

is, for
i
, friendly to the tente
in the entilitary liscloeures
tratity d.
to is on in
: 4114.
: for hot
d:
te
of the 00
of te 1
*4.1, .
17
3
1
04-21
10210

..
,
RE SECURITY LAD

CONFIDENTIAL

14 OCTOVER 1054
VIA:
EF2-A-1704
AIB
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICE:
-151
FROM: Chief, DG
ATT.: Chief, SE/SIG
SUBJECT: operational/SIGTANALIA
SPECIFIC: Interrogation of Easton Calcureate from Rio. De Janeiro
DOC. NO.
Trouwilted cape i is triplicate
for 16.0s preparation
by Wialiam
regardim Interrogation of Easton
Caricreate from Pio, Brasil.

DOCS: REPRODUCTIONS

All in triplicate.

Distribution:
1 - Headquartero v/att. or none:
2 - Bio Paulo, w/att. Or none.
1 - Pilea, w/att. Or none.

Merle M. Haſner

b-1704

DOOD REPRODUCTIONS

14-00000

SUBJECT: Passing of RI Reports to Brasilian futhorities.
REP-1-519
27. October 1954
:
1. On 18 October, Marcos EASTOS, ACUATI's colleague in the Brasilian Fodoral
Political Police, informed him that of 15 October he had submittal to the
Chief of Police a relation of the reports has received from ATHY.
(Eastos had been given by AATHY sterilized versions of RI-2 to RI-15,
inclusive, and RI-17 to RI-29, inclusive, along was biographical information
of the sources of those reports. RI-16-30 mare not passed to EASTOS
because they had been obtained from ALLOPATHY.)
2. On 27 October Eastos informed ATHY that the translation of the reports
bad seen forwarded by the Chief of Police to Colonel LERALDO, the present
head of the Federal Political Police in to da Janeiros who, in turn, had
formarded it to Jean 100 of the Political Division of the Political
Police, for his recommendations. Eastos stated that he believed PIOGRAFIALt
sould recommend that the reports be forwarded to the Foreign Office and the
For Vinistry. BAstos also intends to give a copy of the translations to
Ribeiro da AMARO, head of the Servicio da Vigilancia of the Department of
Political and Social Order (D.O.P.S.), São Paulo, tas iniicated an interest
in receiving it.

3. As an introduction to the translation of the reports, LiSTOS Cascribed briefly
Brazil's Stateless refugee imigration problems and the voluntary welfare
organizations which assist the inaigrants in gaining entry to, and settling
in, Erasil. The translation of this introductien is as follows:

"The current imigration of hito Russians tato Brasil began in 1918. It
has diminished since June 1954 in the face of the dectaton teken ty th
National Institute of Colonization ent Imigration (Instituto Eacional de
Liscração Colonis) (H.1.I.C.) on 16 June 1954. On that dats, th
Directorata of the H.I.I.C. decided to request that the Kinistry of Foreign
Relations take the necessary steps to stop the issuance of vicas for
stateless persons for a period of sixty days.

"On 30 Juns, Vicento Viao, thon Foreign kinister, sent a circular to all them
consulates ordering a stoppage in the issuance of vices until a final
decision could be reached.

"Ca 22 September, the Foreign Office Issued to the consulates new instructions,
according to which, corarally sporting, stateless tigreats are pareittel
entry to Brasil only if they have in Erasil relatives in the direct line of
descent shoss ocomade situation is such that they can guarente the
cabstatoncs of the icalgrants.

14-00000
Nevertheless, it cay to noted that there are various stateless gem
in Kong Kong, with their respective passports in orier, meeting accommodation
on one of the five chips of the Hong Kong-Dienes Aire 11 منا الج BOLAGSVAT LSSSVANP
LS, TRELLER, KANINOSCH
(1)

"The difficulties which the international organisations counter in obtaining
complète and roltaldo Laforation on the imigrants are due to a large extent
to the fact that those imigrants luduy's resita in areas far removed from
the locales of the organizations offices. Ons wat alas raise the
fact that included coong the stateless imigrante is a large or of
persona useful to Brazil, auch as the following types of writoras achenics,
engineers, electricians, cheatsts, etc.

There are twelve international organisations who are responsible for preparing
the imigrants for this Jourray or batter, the cilt of those stataless
rofugees from China sad various European countries. They crost

1. A.J.D.C. - American Joint Distribution Committos, with offices in Rio
ant São Paulo.
2. Entr'Ailo Ouvriore Internationale (International Worker
.Ο.Ι. Ε
3. Η.Ι.Α.S.
4. 1.C.M.C.
Lutual Aid)
Hebrow imigrant Aid Socioty, with offices in Rio and São
Paulo.
International Catholic Migration Cission, with offices
in Rio end São Paulo.

5. 1.5.3. International Social Service, with offices in His and São Paulo.
5. I.R.C. International Hoscuo Committee. has no representatives in Erasil.
7. L.W.F. Lutheran Korld Federation, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
8. National Catholic Wolfaro Conference, with offices in Rio
.C.M.C.
and São Paulo.
9. S.A.E. Suios Ald to Europa. Has to representation in Erasil.
10. T.F. Tolstoi Foundation, with offices in Rio ant São Paulo.
11. U.U.A.R.C. Unitel Virenian Azerican Koliof wittes.
"
12. K.C.C.Worli Council of Churches, with offices in Rio cad São Paulo.

"Two of those organizations handle the largest number of arrivals. Ono
13 the W.C.C. shows office in Rio is located at Praia do Fl, 180,
ept. 602; 113 office in São Paulo is at a D. Veridiana, 30. (20
Paulo office is under the direction of Wiss Rachel da CARVALLO. (2) Tha
othor arganisation is to N.C.M.C., whose office in illo is at Avonida
Churchill 60; its office in São Paulo is in the Church of Peace (Igreja
on kis licorio. The São Paulo office ia under the direction of
Fatior Lario.(3)

Since 25 April 1954, cary statolcas persons sio have baca unable to obtain
a visa for Erazil, Canada or Australia have boon repatriated to tho U.S.S..
As a result of this repatriation, it is possible, though rot probable, that
sors elements may be sent fiva China to Brasil to engage in cubversiva
activities hare, while ambers of their families, who have been repatriated
to Russia, are held as hostages there."

AE CARD MEPRODUCTIONS

14-00000

AUVERME Comments
1. RIOD-346 reported on 2 October 1954 that about 6 such statele
rofees with entry visas for Bresil issued prior to 30 June 1951 |
Κούς Κους waiting for transportation to Brasil.
SUIKO FIVE SUDACI

2. The head of the W.C.C. office in Rio is André MOURATIEFF, who is
concurrently Delegate of W.C.C. for all Latin America and, in this capacity,
is Kiss CARVALHC's superior.

3. The head of the N.C.W.C. in Rio is Walter DWINICA, who is the overall
hest of N.C.W.C. activities in Brasil, in which capacity he is Father Harlo's
superior. DUSHNYCK's chief assistant in Rio 10 Hies Adelaida da Costa ACEVEDO.

:
14-00000

FOM
2

2300
2315
Sich
S. de . . Frana

ADRAL SUBMITTED

14-00000
TOP SER
CONTL. GPICIAL POLY
FILE:
Froa
COUNTI
SI.Y TORIATION
12 Janiary 1952
Jren Parto.....
Hegort 15720/chic File .
Reporter inter Peterson
Distribution
By copy to
PI Y
:: URUECESSARY
FCP-GOT
Source: SPIRI :: 03..11.
Source: Operational baze, and Comments:
Subjeut: Joseph LEGRAND Reassigned
Connests Por trave on the individuala named in
the attached sa the followings
LECTAND-PN-7016 (81), and other
CARY, Ello --17015
Rocsi, balie - 170-10, 50-518
DELUCOSE, Leen-170-11) 17-685 SC-515
(1) - -
LDIKE, Charles - 75-7960 and other
Classification/ CONTR C:ICIAL CRLY
19CC77
14.7-1 159

14-00000
SECRET
CON DL/TIS, OFFICIALS ONLY
Place Arquired France, Paris
Evaluation:
ADAM SITY INFORMATION
Report No: KOP 5929.
Date of Information: Current
Date Acquired: 8 January 1952
Date of Report: 12 January 1952
Cource: Through a fairly reliable source fra an informant with MP contacts
1. Joseph LEAND, involved in the "Prousstor affair" and as a result
expelled from the Central Committos of the PC in the Spring of
1951, was recently awarded the position as Administrative
Secretary of the Regional Kiners Poduration (COT) in the and
Radical-coraciones. Auguste vas inotamentul in
securing this rezeignment for Rid, according to source.
2. )Lacan) sad (alle) who wore in charge for yornal of
of the reorganisation of the Regional Federation have been placed
rld's orders and have been charged with insufficient
action".
3. Dad has been given "full" to visit all autuificates and
to autoloranta judged wicessary, redusing
the directing cronica of the various cyndicatos, Coures stated
hat is solivities era partially ulotated by finanziol
necesalty and that staffs will be reduced for econcato reasono.
(8), cacrotery of the incre symulicato of Main (Ford),
ס baba charged with reorganieting the Valancicones costar, in
particular the cause regica, mich nga fallen into
lothar es a result of the inertio of the trato (120)。
According to youros, Cl, former general of the cinema
cor حاده for castics been in itra fcr
El Co a result of lack of disciplina and incercatenca in
encata cffairs. Mosover, הסכנה nted to take onability
fer dictoing a first aut porformed by LORD in hio

5. Peccably cared that 24 ele bas been given feck
papis drowe symelicates and the
all
(Charles) 111
next elections for siness Colegatos.
Masflectica SECRET/CONTERO 8. C/FICIALS ONLY
29-7-1-157.
P
-A-
FEATURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH 3P
CLASSIFICATION
Cider of Station, Paris
Cater,
A
FMON
101
Tulo SECU
DISPATCH NO
7-12105)

1. the following inferation or Froderic SH, baitovel to bo
dentical 1671 you cut jeet, tum translates
refert in
German recived fres "unll-placed cource in the lobt Germen Government",
und transtittel to horaquantery in 112, Karna. 15

"
SEGON, Proder)
Dorm 31110 in Herita
Androsas Montrescobalt Avenue treplac
Professions Journallet, crtatly correspondent of the
Sutou owupaper or Lund", 10 Corman daily
"Dio kalt", cul cf "Radio Stuttgart".
A politially soulthil pardon i recurved an entranco
visa ier Heat Varnary Valid for six months on Al Jamer
152. leaving to information from to trociniostry
of Interior the S,), SHOCK vas verking for the Comanist
paper "Die Zurt" (Hunsentarter) lofare the war
the vi for the Swiss Casamist toaspapers "Dio tat", "Valk
wal "Arboltorzeitig. Alorally not a coramiot!
Altay rate so stated to present Press Attano of the Consul
nerdito Gran Commulate General, Free
RADIO, when 3000
ISO Stol a
a twisten
".
ppilai tar av
mitation on Lot of
(Ralio),
Che nowsposer, "Dio Welt", "Stuttgart
Kutionaliti Farmari Guruظال )Joy) out 154 το
Waie viere inquire town cop deccating to
is own statement, vnded by the Lost Germ bross
Office in Born to Apply gain for German citizenship ba,
reting Officer
-
==End of OCR for page 12==