14-00000
104-10177-10147 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8
NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES, OCT.6,
1976, NEUTRALITY MATTERS CUBA
WEST INDIES
FRI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (CABLE FROM DIRECTOR,
FBI)

14-00000
SECRET
21 MAY 1976

MEMORANDOM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REPRESSIVE MEASURES AGAINST CUBAN EXILES
REF: HZPA-21247, 21 April 1976

1. All names in ref dispatch were traced, as much as possible,
and interested desks were notified of Subject's past or present ops
interests.
2. Following is the information retrieved from the traces:
A. GARCIA Vasquez, Orlando. (WKTANGO-1) Notified the
Venezuelan Desk, they in turn will notify the field.
B. HUERTAS, Enrique (Medical Doctor) (201-279389)-AMING-2.
After more than five years of service as a JAWAVE psychological
warfare agent A-2 was amicably terminated on 30 November 1965.

C. PEREZ Alamo, Duney (201-0331081) alias Capt. Alamo.
AMLUNT-2. Recruited Dec 65 for use as MILARRON recruiter. He
received agent and team training which included demolition.
Subject was terminated 31 Dec 66 due to inability to establish
operational contacts.
D. MORALES Navarette, Ricardo. Resides in Venezuela,
no ops interest.
E. PUENTE Blanco, Jose (201-163893). Was of interest
to Caracas Station, informed the desk.
F. PUENTE Blanco, Roberto (201-126313). CIFENCE-7.
Was of interest to Caracas Station, informed the desk.

G. BUSTILLOS, Antonio. Possibly Subject of 201-756656,
AMWAX-2. Recruited in 1964 and terminated November 1966.
Reason
was cancellation of Operation SAMSON and economy in operations.

H. MARTINEZ Castro, Pedro (201-346051). No ops interest.

I. ESTEVEZ, Angel (201-732176). No ops interest.

J. JIMENEZ, Caspar. No 201.
SECRET
201-334081

14-00000
SECRET
K. VASQUEZ, Jose AKA "Pepe". Not identified.

L. MILERA, Raul de la. No 201.

M. FONT, Ramon. Not identified.

N. LORENZO, Carlos. Not identified.

O. GARCIA, Rigoberto. Possibly Subject of 201-319634,
SLAPJACK-30. Was initially contacted Jan/Feb 1962. On OA was
granted 7 Jan 74 for SLAPJACK-30's use as a radio operator for
project SLAPJACK. Could not find any indication that Subject
has been terminated.

P. HERNANDEZ, Carlos. Not identified.

Q. MIRON, Jose. No 201.

R. VERDAGUER, Guillermo AKA VERDAGUER. (201-231514)
No ops interest.

S. CALATAYUD, Antonio. Possibly Subject of 201-297795.
OA was requested 31 Mar 61 for use as a PM traince. File does
not indicate if OA given or if he was ever used.

T. ALONSO, Marcos. No traces.

3. LA/COG has been notified of the inclusion of former COG
assets on this list and will take whatever action is deemed appropriate.
The Venezuelan desk is taking action in the cases of GARCIA and
PUENTE.

Juan Ortiz
LA/PNC/PA

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig.
56-5-21 w/cy of dispatch
(1) - LA/COG w/cy of dispatch
LA/PNC/V w/cy of dispatch
1 chrono
SECRET

14-00000
10
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH
SECRET
INFO.
Chief, Latin America Division
FROM
Chief of Station, Panama City
Panamanian Repressive Measures against Cuban Exiles
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION: See para 5.

1. A compilation of information reported by Station
penetrations of the local service (i.e. HYEPOCH-5, HYEPOCH-11;,
HYRAVEN-11) indicates that the local security service is assuming
an increasingly hostile posture against Cuban exiles traveling to
Panama. The reporting sources coincide in their information that
this attitude is directed primarily against Cuban exiles residing
in Miami. It appears that this development may be the result of
the reporting of HYGRUFF-1's agent in Miami, Salvador ALDAREGUIA.
ALDAREGULA continues to report from Miari alleging cooperation
between Cuban exiles and Panamanian exiles in Miani who are
opposed to the regime of General Omar TORRIJOS Herrera.

2. HYGRUFF-1 recently submitted a watchlist of Cuban exiles
to Tocumen International Airport (TIA) and other Panamanian ports
of entry ordering the recipients to deny entry into Panama to all
those persons on the watchlist. HYDROCHE-S, the most alert of all
Station penetrations commented that in his opinion the list
contained Cuban Embassy input because his service did not have
the capability to collect sufficient data on all the persons
listed to be able to make a meaningful evaluation of which ones
are dangerous! The Station has not been able to confirm
HYEPOCH-5's suspicions.

3. For the record, the Cuban exiles on HYGRUFF-1's
watchlist are the following:

Distribution:
2 - C/LAD

(continued)
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CATE
HZPA-21247 21. April 1976.
CLASSIFICATION FILE NUMBER
SECRET 156-5-21

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF SECRET ISPAICIA SIMAGE AR
DISPATCH
ΚΕΡΑ-21247
a. GARCIA Vasquez, Orlando. Resides in Venezuela.
b. HUERTAS, Enrique (Medical Doctor). AMING.2 201-279389
c. PEREZ Alamo, Duney, alias Capt. Alamo. LUNT 201-0331081
d. MORALES Navarrete, Ricardo. Resides in Venezuela.
e. PUENTE Blanco, Jose. 201-163893
f. PUENTE Blanco, Roberto. CIFENCE-7 201-126313
g. BUSTILLOS, Antonio. Preable 201-0756656
h. MARTINEZ Castro, Fedro. 211-0346051-20 ofs int

i. ESTEVEZ, Angel. He is well known to Floyd 11. 201-07
McNertney (MOC). He is a criminal.
no ofs intereat

J. JIMENEZ, Gaspar
k. VASQUEZ, Jose, aka "Pepe". no ident.
l. HILERA, Raul de la.

m. FONT, Ramon.noident.
n. LORENZO, Carlos. no ident
o. GARCIA, Rigoberto R problema
SLAPJALK-30 201-0319634

p. HERNANDEZ, Carles alias "El Aura". no ident
110201
q. MIRON, Jose.
r. BERDAGUER, Guillermo aka VERDAGUER. 201-023151

s. CALATAYUD, Antonio. McNertney thinks the last no
name is a garble.

t. ALONSO, Marcos. 201-0

4. Of the persons listed above, MCNERTNEY knows Orlando
GARCIA Vasquez well. GARCIA was born in Cuba, became a
naturalized U.S. citizen when he fled from Cuba to the United
States. lie eventually settled in Venezuela where he became a
close friend and confidant of Carlos Andres PEREZ, now president
of Venezuela. Aside from Venezuelan diplomatic posts he has
held abroad he was at one tine Chief of Operations of DIGLFOL.
MCNERTNEY cormented that if the Panamanians ever had the tererit
to mistreat GARCIA that PEREZ' reaction against TORRIJOS would
undoubtedly be fierce.

5. We defer to Headquarters to name check these individua
ascertain if BKHERALD has any operational interest in any of the
and advise the responsible component to take precautionary
measures in the event any novement of these individuals involves
travel to or transiting Panama. In exploiting this information
please protect the sources.

Algernon. O. FORTYUNE
CLASSification
SE PACOUSTON
SECRET
٥٠٦٥٧٥...
2

14-00000
SECRET

CO COCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

PEREZ ALAMO, DUNEY
201-0334081
SEX M
056-005-021
HZPA-21247
21 APR 76
P2

ALIAS ALAMO/CAPT/
CUBAN EXILE-POSSIBLE TRAVEL TO PANAMA SEC
SERVICE PANA TAKING HOSTILE POSITION AGAINST
CUBAN EXILES TRAV TO PANA. ATTITUDE DIRECTED
AGAINST CUBAN EXILES RES OF MIAMI. MAY RE
ALLEGED COOPERATION BETWEEN CURAN EXILES AND
PANA EXILES MIAMI WHO OPPOSED TO REGIME GEN
TORRIJOS

CATE 17 MAY 76 09401544

201-334081

SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

1

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 8 MAY 1975

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: DONNEY PIO PEREZ ALAMO

FBI FILE NO: 105-4953 (MIAMI)

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 3 DECEMBER 1974

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: DUNNEY PIO PEREZ ALAMO

FBỊ FILE NO: 105-4953 (MIAMI)

14-00000

FBI-DOCUMENT

DATE: 31 JULY 1974

CIASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (CUBAN ACTION) (AC)

FRI FILE NO: 105-21947 (MIAMI)

14-00000
1

198
OUTGOING MASSAGE

SIGNAL CENTERUSI
0000 0 0 1 00
ONF. 0 0 0 0 0
CLASSI SECRET
MESS40F MANNING INDICATOR
STAFF (на
CONF:8
TO: WH/MΙΑΜΙ. Υ
REAM Y
CIRE 0120342
INFO: FILE FATAN DIRECTOR 501828
DISSEIA DY 20

BE PURN TO
PER
REF: WH/MIAMI 22236 114 3219331 4
REPPY
0 1. HAS IRMACES ON DUNNEY PIO PEREZ ALAMO (201-334081):
PEREZ RECRUITED DEC US FOR USE AS MHAPRON RECRUITER. HE RECEIVED
AGENT AND TEAM TRAINING WHICH INCLUDED DEMOLITION. PEREZ WAS-
TERMINATED 31 DEC LE DUE TO INABILITY TO ESTABLISH LOCATION OF
OPERATIONAL, CONTACTS. Y

2. NO CURRENT INFO ON PEREZ. Y
3. FILE: 201-334081. 12 IMPDET.A.
IPIFI

DATE: 1 AUGUST 1974
ORIG: CAROL BARR/JR
UNIT:
EXT:
WH/COG/CI
1819

E A
RECORD COPY
C/YH/COG baily
COURU NARIK, COFICHES
REPRODUCTION SP OTHER THAN THE ISSING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
2010334081
1 AUG 74
Spera
C/1/7
E2 PILER
LIPDET
CL BY: 054555
SECRET

14-00000
CABLE SEC DISSEM DV SPER
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION.BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITES

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
ACTION
FILE
VR
AL
L
STAFF
5
1308114 E1A797
PAGE 01-01 IN 321933
TOR13120202 JUL 74 WMIM 22236
SECRET 3119102 JUL 74 STAFF
CITE WH/MIAMI 22236 (ENNIS ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR.

REAM
1. FBI/MIAMI REQUESTS TRACES ON DUNNEY PIO PEREZ ALAMO.
DP.08 11 JULY 1937 CUBA, RESIDES MIAMI AT 2479 N.W. 29TH STREET,
ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A12 440 516, HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN SEVERAL
CUBAN EXILE MILITANT GROUPS.

2. FILE: DEFER. E2 IMPDET

RECORD COPY

2010334081
31 JUL.74

SECRET
