104-10183-10346 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use Only
RETURN TO CIA
Do Not Reproduce

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
TO
# NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 Jark B Hyann 3/23 85
2 hel Sur
3
4
5
6

ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE

Remarks: F/1
I've been what to brief
Not Partiagato
FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND, PHONE NO. DATE
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
2-61 FORM NO 237 Use previous editions (40) US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961-567282

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Training

ATTENTION : Chief, Covert Training/OS/T
SUBJECT : Covert Training for member of of CIWOO organization
REFERENCE : Proposed Training Curriculum for CIWOO Trainees From CC/OS/TU

1. It is requested that covert training be given to the CIWOO trainees listed below for the period of & March 30 April 1965. This will be the second group of CIWOO trainees under this program which was initiated by the ll Venezuelan Desk of Branch Three of WH Division through Rawleigh Taylor Chief, Covert Training, in September 1967. The first group has been given an 8 wooks covert course ending on 26 February 1965. The trainees will be in Washington under the notional cover of "participating in military training courses" or possibly a "purchasing mission" Lon their Government. As such, they will not be formal liaison visitors and will not be expected to enter Headquarters buildings, except for one day training in the R & S Building, or to meet Agency officials.
2. Project Chock is a Caracas Station Station activity which has as its objectives the establishment liaisons for a Liaison relationship with the Venezuelan Armed Forces Intelligence Service, (SIFA) to permit CIA to improve the efficiency and capabilities of SIFA and eventually recruit a member of SIFA, Jacob B. HURS CHWOOD, a Staff Agent under non-official cover in Curacao) to providing advice and guidance to SIFA and is obtaining intelligence information in return. It is believed that covert training can help improve the efficiency and

14
14-00000
-2-
Internal security for SIFA which will enable this organization to more effectively combat the extremist cherrilla tuna terrorist activity formented by the ll Communist Party of Venezuela with old and encouragemeut ll from Cuba. Vouezuela is getting maximum attention from Castro in his effort to bring about communist tale-over ta Latin Ameriou. Besides the inherent value of the training itself, the creating of the training will help HURSCHWOOD improve his daily operational novociation with Sita and enhance its opportunity of making a success-ful recruitment in the future. Oriontation in Counter Insurgency is also beling included to give li officiate a greater awareness of the problem and thus to lay the ground work for future work in this field.

3. The responsibio desk operations officer for this course will be Mr. William E. Cavan, who will be known to the trainees as "Bill Cabal", the same identity he used with the first group. An Agency serviced telephone number, 636-3120 has beva arranged and will be given to the trainees as a number where "Bill Cabal" can be reached in an emergency. This quarter is corviced 24 hours a day and Hr. Cavannis immediately notified to call the persone who asked for him at that nuaber. Mr. CAVAN is located in room 382613 of Headquarters Building, extension 4521.

4. The following is pertinent biographic data on the trainees:

a. Lt. Colonel Mario FALANDO Lobato

DPOB: La Guatra, Venezuela, 25 September 1923

Marital Status: Married? April 1949. Has three seall childreu.

Formal Education: High School, Caracas (dates unknown). A graduate of the Venezuelan Military Academy in 1950. Attended the Infantry School at Fort Bonning, Georgia, in 1950 and studied English at American University. In 196ίς he attended the Argentine Aray Scheel of War for approxixately 12 months.

1450
14-00000
-3-

Language Ability: Spanish and some nglish. (English listed ca "fair")

Froment Status: Chief of Adainistration of

Arca knowledge: Has visited the USA and Argentina

Previous Intelligence
Training: None fudicated, but ing probably had come Intelligence tralning either in the Venezuolan Aray or bis Argentine course.

Other: HURSCHLOOD considera Fajardo as potential recruit on return to Venezucia and suggeste ho to 1 ven special attention.

b. Major Luis Alfonso OCHOA

DPOE: 9 September 1926, Las Pantas, State of Bolivar, Venezuela.

Marital Status: Married 1962, has 6 small childrea

Formal Education: High School, Caracas, 1946-1950. Patored the Venezuelan military service tu 1948 aud has taken intermediate and advanced courses in the Venezuelan Tafantry School. He has commanded rifle platoons and fofantry companies and has been an instructor in the infantry School of the Venezuelan Aray.

Language Alility: Only native Spanish

Present Status: Official; exact title cot Androated.

Training: not indicated
P'rovious Intelligence

c. Lt. Colonel Haul JIMIENC Gainza

Drow: IG December 1922, San Felipe, State of Yaracuy, Venozuela

Martial Status: Carried - wife is platild Abreu do Jimenez

16190
14-00000
-4-
Formal Education: Not listed, but probably a graduate of the Toneruntan Military Monday.

Language Ability: Not indicated.

Prosout Status: Deputy Director of SIFA

Previous Intelligence
Training: Not ludicated

Aróa Knowledge: Not iudicated.
رمان

Other: Jimenez has recently bona andhaputy Director of SIFA and should be given doferouce as the leador of the group.

d. Lt. Colonel Solis Autonio MARTINEZ

Pros: 13 August 1926, San Luis, State of Faloon, Venezuela

Hartial Status: Harried, three children

Formal Education: High School, Caracas) 1940-1944; Venezuela Hiitary Academy 1944- 1947 (graduate). Also anaploted specialized courand in lutuatry (Tactics and Tank Warfare, as voll as the course of study given by the Superior War College of the of (Veucsuolan Ministry of War. He has served in a variety of capacities within the venezuelan Aron since 1947 comanning every thing from platoons througla battaliono as well as instructor of artillery. He has are not acninst the guerrillas in the Stute of Falcon. He served in of Colourial dates usianown, a member of the Venezuelan sission to "Operation America".

Language Ability: Native Spanish, reads but does Hot speak or write English. Nic coupetence in understanding English is given as "fair".

15/90
14-00000
-5-

Aroa nuowledgo: Subject's only travel outside of Venezuela was to Colombia.

Irevious lutelligenco
Training: None indicated but probably has had souo intelligonco training during his Military garoor.

Other: He is Chief of Investigations of the SIFA and wii probably return to this position. It is jonalble that he is aware of Station's polico liaison with Venezuelan political polico (DIGEPOL), without knowing the details of the Folationship.

POM's for trufuing have been granted for Fajardo Jimenez and Hartinez and are pending for Chand Jimenez is aused that the trainees are aware of the Agency affiliation of HORSCHWOOD and that the training will be conducted by CIA. The Director of Sim is aware of HURSCINFOOD' CIA association and was also received by the DCI on 21 July 1964 during a visit to the U.S.

6. Training Requirements: The training should be hold iu a safehouse, conducted in Spanish and on a full Liwe basis. The suggested dates are frow & March through 30 April 1965, which have boen approved by Chiof, Covert Training, OS/Th. The traluces will use actional military training cover during the training period, and it is cot anticipated they will ontor Headquarters building. Thoy will be taken into the R & S Tuilding for a one-day indoctrination in Seals and Flaps and Audio Survoillance. Hoqucats for this entrance will be covered in a separate paragraph. A one-day orientation course in Counter Insurgency is also discussed in a subsequent paragraph as well as an extonaive two-wook course in Flaps and Seale For Major Ochon at a Tsh Safe House.

7. iloquirements for oil/0OS/Covert Training: ( Station Caracas has submitted the following recommendations as areas which should be covered in the training of these officers: OME/OS/Covert Training may modify and/or adapt the list as necessary.

a. The Organization of Clandestiuo Activitios
b. Security

c. Observation and Description (Chang)

1460
14-00000
-6-
d. Surveillanco

9. Agent Acquisition
1. Spotting
Accesscout
3. Ασο
4. Training
6. Mamaezent
6. Terdination

1. Ciandestino Communications

g. Counter Intelligenco

b. Interrogation

1. Reporting

J. Intelligence Research and Analysis

8. It is requested that Ground Brauch of SOD moke the services of Colonel Valeriano available for a one-day orientation in the latest techniques used in the field of counterinsurgency. The trainees are well aware of the general problems and history of fighting guerrillas and are actively engaged in oporations at the present. It is suggested that the instructions stress use of intelligence in combatting guerrilla groups and ceana of procuring it to include the creation of intelligence nets acang peasants in the afflicted areas. It is also belioved that any current information on modifications in the tactics of Mao Tse-tung would also: be of value as would be examples of the use of psychological warfare programs against the guerrillas cud the intellectual leaders of the communiet party, considered as the novlug force behind the guerrilla novomentin Verozuolaji(It is proposed that Mr. Cavan who would use the alias of "ill Cabal" fake the Te trafnees to the office of Valorians and that Valeriano be introduced as a consultant of CLA who is very knowledgeable of counterinsurgency probleus Valeriano as a member of the International lolice Services Academy, has talked to other Latin American officials on this problem as part of his overt duties. It is believed his talks will make SA more aware of the threats of insurgency movements and ated Lo the ground work for possible future association with SIFA or the the Venez Venezuelan Government in the counterinsurgency

14-00000
-7-
Field. Through Mr. Ellio. Chief of the Ground Branch of SOO, and Mr. Wall, of the same branch, one-half day orientation course was given to the first trainees who suggested that a full day vould be sufficient due to the lovel of the above trainees and the experience they have in this fiold.

9. Arrangemente have been made with Mr. Luria and Mr. Eritz Meko of TSD/Training to provido Major Lulu Alfonso uchomwith a flaps and Souls course for the period of 19-30 April at a TSD Safe House. It is believed the Flure and Seals course will benefit CIA because it will offor HERSCHOOL the opportunity to sintain closer contact with ochon mail the responsible for this type activity in SIA SIFA proposes to make a concertod offort in the letter intercept fiold to koop better informed of the extrece loftist offorts to overthrow the Venezuelan government, and it is felt that HUILSCHWOOD can keep abreast of the operation. Because of SIFA's responsibilities, it is believed that the wore effiofent effort that Sifcan gule in this field will result to the benefit of CIA.Tinjor Ochon would take the first six wooks of the covert training course then devote the last two weeks to the Flops and Souls course.

10. It is also requested that TSO/Training provide a one-day course in Audic Surveillance and flaps and Seals for the other three trainees at the R & S Building. This should be a very geuoral briefing with the least possible omphasis on ocupiicated, expensive equipaout that might be later requested by the trainces. It 10 believed this general introduction will give the IFA trainees some idea as to approaches and problema luvolved in these fields as well as the pitfalls that should be avoided. This one-day course was given to the first three tratuses who appeared improused with the concepte expoand to thea. This subject has also been discussed with Mr. Luria ami a fira date has been selected for the training. The OTit fustructor will accompany the trainees and act as translator.
14-00000
8-

It is roquested that C1/CA obtalo permission for the visitors to enter the it & S building for this training which is scheduled for the 19th of April.

Concurrances: DESMOND FITZGERALD
Chief
Vosteru Hemisphero Division
DC/CI

Dor Training and Qualification Review

WH/3/V/WECAVAN IP (24 Feb. 65)

Distribution:
Orig & 1
Addressce
1 DDP/TRO
1 CI/Staff
1 FI/OPS
2 TSD/TUNG
1 SOD/Ground
1 C/WID
1 C/MH/Pang
2 WH/308
