14-00000
104-10221-10002
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE PIELE/NO ALH: Victor Rico Galan Vol II
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 Sept 1966 - 20 Jul 1972
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/EXO
11001 3057
DELETIONS, IF ANYS
RECEIVED RETURNFO THATTE REVIO
PRING Actor RICO Calan
LENTES OFFICIAL
NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA!
11:
JKTIGER
01-336474
VOLIL

14-00000
VICTOR RICO GALAN
FEB. 1961
CE CARDS

14-00000
Rice, Thetor (alen) 201-336474 Card #1
Vadimir KASYUNVICH; 2 y, Sor, told Enrique'of the BIF (16 - 17 (Buro de Investi
gaciones), that invitations to a reportica ere personal and that BORDES should
tell Sergio NOVELL and subj. DOI: 7 Hor 56.
934-16 Forwarded a copy of alfia, anti-Us mas. (Editor-in-chief is named Victor RICO
253 Galan, prob Subj)
05260 persons in above two dispatches are probably identif dentifiable. lo. Ho has traces
on either ictor RICO ICO or Victor RICO Galan.

Victor RICO Galan, writer for Siempre, mis or.tor at 1st nig of Politica 
26 Feb. Study Circle which has been formed in AN & tharu foror.
thu which Com Comic sympathizer Hifzers hope
take part in student council elections. (C-3)

Victor Rico Galan among thoes journalists in on July elected to the
2950 can preparatory committee for the Second Int tertional Congress of
held in fustria during October 1960 (LIFT (1 R D-2)
-525 invols pay or mohorancocited th
11 comment, and to bas

Manuel VARCLE Fardinas (c linas (dir-ger of Politics, leftist sei-unthly ragazine)
26 set Planned send Sand (abr of his reporterial staf taf) to seo illiA CHIZ Fiedras
CS- (anti-US Deputy Maxcals) 1) with problem. o SACHEZ said he he wid w be ye
receive Subj. and thanked FARCLE for his la sep article praising his. (LIANVOY, B-2
very happy to
:

14-00000
H-5287 Subs is Chief of Information on Pueblo, anti-US and pro-Cuba newspaper,
11 Nov 60
H320 Suban, a instructed C for second neolch Ciljito travel te lithera
3eb El of the Box Cov and trying to delay the appearance of Politica. (LIENVOY B-2)
H-Sulh Subj is accused by Manuel MCUE Pardinas, dir-gen of Politica, of being in the pay
C
51.58 another accusation of trying to delay issuance of Politica by MARCIE who wants to
15 Feb 61 get rid of subj; Rosendo MZZ Lorenzo cautioned that he has a public following &
CSLU bhould not be dismissed. (LIVOY B-2)
104-5607 Subj was to attend interview of LOPEZ Mateos relative to case of Cuba on 20 Apr 61.
21 Apr ol Interview was planned on 19 Apr by CEM & Max Organising Committee of LAPC.
TDCS-3/472,253 (LIENVOY, B-2)
H-5791 Subj is a mor of the Committee for Solidarity w/the Cuban Revolution. (LIFTER, B-2)
28 Jul 61
C3-3/482,611
31 Det 61 staff of
17 Joz 61
05-3/4,
: 3/20 in th
publish
Subj., hojas unable to citomonatle
4
Setonal (
t
van working over-
03.
Er
CONTALE Pedrere, lared to register puh 31 Oct under hade literacion Hicloral,

14-00000
RICO, Victor (Jalan)
1-5678
31 May 68
Card 2
Victor RI60: Coala
07

14-00000
RICO, Victor (Galan)
201-336474
:M-6302 Subd., Karxist journalist who heads Press and Propaganda Committee, among
6. Apr: 62 persone who attended round-table diagussion held by 2 apr
Card 3
CS-3/508, prison sentences imposed on David Alfaro Siqueiros, prominent Nex artist, and
797
Apr 02 on bj of
HM-6486
19 June 2
CS-3/515,
731
r Filamera FATA, his fellow-prisoner, on 10 March. Subj.ama, speakers. (LICY-2,
B-2, CONTROL)
14 June 62 Manuel MARCUK Pardinas, promtrent Mex Marxist who is dirigent of Politic
Hex Marxist, anti-s, pro-Cub
Proenza, Call Att of Cuban Embinez, caproschine 26 of July celebration in Matuna.
uba, semi-monthly semi- magasine, asine, dis discussed w/Teresa Pit
MARC'TS recommended discreet high-level eraons be named to Nex delegation wid
recommended Subj., among other Maratead Communist writers for Politica as well-
qualified, itelligent persone to send an delegates to Cuba, PARCUL said he hoped
Sub wld wld be invited to attend because he
anxious to go there. (LIENVOY,B-2) SECRET/NOFORN - CORNED CONTROL
he had never never visited Cuba ang was very
CORED CONTROL
Journalist and head of Kat
CS-3/525, CASTRO Rus, Communist Prime Minister of Cuba. Subj., who proposed idea to Cuban
HIM-6770
5 Cct 62
06
Subj., Max Karxist journal
of MN, pro-Cuba, anti-03 Com front, pl
ead of Kational Press and Propaganda Committee
plans to write political al biography on Fiel
Govt and was accepted, will spend 2 mos in. Cuba working on project. (LICOOKY-1,
2)
2 Oct Surf loft Mexico for Habana on Cubana Airlines. He carried Mex-passport
No. 51115, v/Cuban courtesy visa. (LIFIRE,9-2)

FBIS #227
Subj has been in Cuba about six weeks.
21 Nov. 62

14-00000
1023-3/138,145
25-746 63
107050
και 3552
2017
ر میں
63
LAL-70-2
Manuel MARCHE Fardinas, dir gent of Politica, ex Farxist somi-monthly
mag., has been suspended Immarbership on ratl cermittoo of LN, charged
with Iack of discipline and having attacked His openly in Politica in
past: soveral months. On 22 job Enrique GoKZALEZ Pedrero, intr of KLE
natl committee and member of staff of Politica, declared in mirs who
belong to staff of Politica must resign Immagazino. Subj among those
who had doubts about rosigning in mag. (LIC, 3-2) 10 FOREION DISSEM
Victor 100 است ued Cuban vina on coparate piece of ver on
2463
Reported hien taive
Victor s
#1-7320 1.0. Victo
721
スーススイス
1
A.
Galan, Taxi Hot
Cuatro on list to
on is to intemiew
Đề thi chu then Castro retapas tached for 37,7). aico hans de Jua
25 or 27
.:
ن
(ort for th
on Moiterview w/astro, dar (terr
い
7.
& spoke
of pro Jean Fort
مرد

14-00000
MCC, Victor (Galas)
201-330174
intellectual.
Card 4
20
A-198, 19 Aug 63 Victor RICO Qalan, in the 21 August 63 issue of Siempre, answered the
AmEmb, Mox. C.
Filed PRI
11131-7066
27 Aug 63
CS-3/558,382
LITEXPO-
B
A-1291
AmEmb, Hexc
9 Apr 63
charges of Romulo Sanchez Mireles, presiding officer of the Chamber of
Deputies, which is Mexico's House of Representatives. Sanchoz, before A
meeting of the PRI, hal attacked those who undermine Nexico's institutiona,
customs, government, and political leaders. Rico answered that he and
thousands of other foreign born Mexicans are discriminated against.
Evening: 21 Αυς 63 15 lex of known Parxist, Corsarist, or leftist ideology
appeared at offices of Sur
Gustavo DIAZ AZ Ordaz, in of Interio
Ithe gro had made no attemp
و.
mot make previoun
formed this sides to inform
prominent loftist journalists.
appt it demanded audience with OLAZ. Lattar inform
visitors request for appt with hin must be in writing and plain applicantla
business, and visitors were to iv immediately. They left peaceably, saying
they wld send Dia telegram daranding audience. (30: Subj one of principal
organizers and participants in rally in faver of political prisoners hold
Μοχό 18 Αυς 63. Rally failed to be held as result of police intervention.
Sub aad other leading participants wore arrested and released same day.
(HYN-764, TDCS-3/557,old
bj., regular contributor
20 Mer iss of loftist wly Siempre published art by Subj
to mag., ag., advocati: ting creation of new pel party to reflect ideology of femer
Pros Lazaro CARDENAS.

14-00000
RICO, Victor (Calan)
HMM-8262
PEXI 7695
IN 9525
9 Jan 64
TDCS-3/
561,563
1993 3/569
201-336474
Card 5
Subj., Mex Marxist journalist, is making preparations to go to Dominican
Republic fa Mexico in very near future, cstensible purpose to gather info
for preparations of some arts on DR. (LIENVOY,B-2, NO FOREION DISSEN)
(FC Subj., por of Propaganda Committee of MLN, pro-Cuba, ants-US Mex
Comminist front, and writer for Siempre, Hex leftist mar., visited Panama,
Quat., Nic, Costa Rica Venesuela, and Brasil between mid-October and mid-
Doc.63, Acc several earlier rpts, Subj spent 8 days in Cuba during May and
June 63 interviewing Fidel Castro Rus, Prime Minister of Cuba, on latter's
stay in USSR. During this period Subj given assignment to visit countries
in South and Central America, where he was to persuade leftist parties to
begin immediate acts of sabotage and violence to take prossure off Vanes.
He was also instructed to pursue competing leftist factions in countries
he visited to unify so their work would have greater impact. In various
off Vanes.
countries he visited, Subj conferred with leading Communists and leftists.
9/569,940 Mico. Gl
25278
10264 52
DIR 94930
16 Jan 64
Based on
SDOM-2619,
IN 99172,
15 Jan 64
12 Jan,
Wingston
Ref.is made to TDCA-3/569,940 distributed 14 Jan 64, Subj: Travel of Subj to
DR.
Info has been reed in Dominican Security Service that Subj left Santo
for Miami, Fla., 15 Jan 64 on Pan American fit 432.
Above to FEX & I&NS.

14-00000
Victor )مادر(
303 3/570.335
-

Sta off fa
Lanon Lora Espinal,
photog-2-2
Jan 64
10 Jan 64, k130
Custo, singer ofauti, formפן זמ
of A (14th June fol Group for photos of cleverer uerrillas
Filled at Las Fennelse 21 200 63. a cot then. Co also
reg koton or infael A Jir of latin Diario, ut Errora rofused
rolouse thon. (Sed raort for detaile con pictures.)

0339 21 Ion 64, Sabi naked Pub, zi ro first dicit to wb. dan told 24 dn
2008-3/570,025 Sibj 1 wanted to 0.23 am, but it co or fit of 27 Jan.
17077-2 (70: remed and
to confer w/ stro upon 11
tum f3...)
: 5634100
1, courton
:

108-9366
stay at otel sivicr
:
LI
Vetar i G
3641, at et for
El for 1
1173 2-2.
8
כין
1473924
Jan
J
21. 3500
(Soo report for cot ils on Li'n netivitics & travel.)
100 Galán,
2
Bob.

14-00000
Card 6
Conversation 18 hirch Fransa att fico RICC and
1100, Victor (Galia)
201-336474
CS-3/ (Cover sheet:
8659 Jorhora)
LISVOY B-2
Tolosa Clean,
hend
Par G
ando
2103 lo nolatreat to
Prensa intima in Santio, Chila,
to not...CO on 1960. 4. Jas anroute from Santiago to
Cuba. (Arr le Kexi 17 Mar, loft for For Cuba 20 lar.)

ANEASSADOR PRESMAN ATTACKED BY SIGHPRE
Nexi
FRIS No. 85, 30 Apr 64
PRENSA LATINA Havana 1910 ONT
exico City Correspondent's Di Dispatch in Spanish to PRENSA
23Apr111. (FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

(Excerpt) Nextes City-In an article in the Mexico City capacle SIEMPRE on
23 April. Vistor Rico Galen wri writes that U.S. Ambassador Fulton Freeman made
statoment te at to the ps pross about out Cuba ad ad Brazil. "In a violent style that seccis to
come
From the savens othe John Pirch Society, he (eritietour) tho
constitutional Loveriment o Joao Goulart a. aà thể Cuban Revolution Hot talked
Like a soapbox orator, as tissuing a polical p proelaat.on. orottle that
xiou maintains ntains rienul, r relations with the Cuban Goverment inent au au dle have very
close relatio lacoth the depored Brasilian President., Nr. Freema, behaved like
a savago
"This
his
is is no great cause for surprise. U.S. ambassadors are constantly inter-
fering in our assestic artairs as it were the most natural thing. They tool
as it they were on conquered ground, and not less liko andassadors than
proconsuls who ove eve no consideration or explanation to anybody, as it this country
belonged to then and they enjoyed boundless privilege
3
aa

14-00000
Impaler.t
"The surprising thing is that nobody has protestads the insult to Mexico has
১০০ passed over over in sbsolute sb silence co. Worse things will o oviously come. co No
sooner does he he arrive arrive in in Mexico than Ar. Freeman arrogates the riht to shout
any thing ho ploscos, s, because dashington ston has become 1 ith No. Mexico's
Independent policy, a. the Toxan st, lo of the Johnson-Marin tea ( (157) alion to to the
relative tolerance of the Kennedy 'Intellectuals, Free comes to oxort pressure
violently atly ad annourices sat the start that he is ready For anything. It is the
policy of International gangsterion that requires the commust o a bull; in those
who pursue it."

Purther on, the writer 88: "Either these saloon ru 10 are stopped short or
Nobody will be allo to stand them. That is why it a serious chat nobody has raised
his voice to teach Freerar oran come come manners, and that, on on the corar, Gonoral Olacho
retary of de deon de once, should hould have have paid him honors with all his ateral stair without
daring to point out to his that this is an independent country s1 that proconsuls
eridvicoroyn oro not allovec hoгo.
"Every U.S. ambassador who comes to to Mexico makes his processeur lock wood by
comparison, but at leas: In the beginning all try to make theselves liked. But
rot Fulton Progman. He comes with sullon looks, raising his voice so, nobody can
bo mistaken. He shows his hand right at the start and nanouces that he is not
going to try to convince anybody but will give orders. This indicates quito
clearly that the State Department thinks it has been the patient and feels
e.roumstances are ripe for acting tough and violently..

14-00000
201-336474
Commie Card 7
HA NavAnt, Nor! (Angel ThaALA Burgos, Gunty, who exiled to Mezi Jan 65, after he was invol-
HARAST, Nexi ved in burning USIA carare in Guat.)
Apt 15864014065 The last mission of hico Galan was the unification of the Guat
18 Mar 65 Guerrillas.
(Cy of report filed in Arme file)
HAM-9727- Leaders of the MLN and the FEP met near the end of March or the beginning
4 June 65 of April 1965 to drav up a letter of convocation to the National Congress
LIFTER for the Liberty of the Political Prisoners and the hepeal of the law of
08-311/ Social Dissolution. SubJ. and members of the group will send out the
07274-65 notice of the Congress. Subj. is a member of the FEP and an enemy of
11 June 65 the PPB
==End of OCR for page 13==
14-00000
어
RICO, Victor (Calan)
201 336474
7a
HMM 8569
12 Mar 64
LIENVOY: Raul Roa Kuri, Cuban Amb, to Brazil said he was kept
informed on activities of Mexi pro Commie activities of Fernando
Carmona de la Fona through subj

MEXI 9761
6 June 4
TDCO 3/583,176: Rico Galan prepared for trip to Guat by dealing
directly with POT in order make direct contact with Yon Sose.
However, special interest in the tri orfinated with the
Chinese Comics 108 who it soors had established socrot infobase
in Chat, Subfaald Chinese Commies woro extremol loaned Yon
Coca way of chinese dorcent.
1200
Publication of Do Ponton Popular lovos
t
Cea doc f filed in Sta tato - Yucatan: Subj Victor RICO Galan Galan Again

A-31
AmConsulato
Ferida
10 Feb65
6131-9550
CS-311/
03173-65
LIOXIDE-1
or RICO Galan
Sutj went to Korida during first few days of February o make a personal
of situa tuation caused by by docrease in price of honoquen.
took place
Haus Arugoton:
Cor
T
e
quen. A doronatrati
asting Inorgapo in arise
110.
atration led by
Ice of heroguen
twoof

14-00000
328054
P-7354
