14-00000
104-10179-10104
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
_ SECRET

TO:
Chief, Task Force W

FROM:
Chief, JMWAVE
SUBJECT: GYROSE/AMCONCERT-1
Report on Cira MARTINEZ
ACTION REQUIRED/REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

PROCESSING

INFO. ACTION
POSED ACCOM
PLISHED
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY CERTAIN
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Attached herewith is an ANCONCERT-1 report on Cira *MARTINEZ,
a confidante of Manuel RAY.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment: h/w
Copies of report (2).

Distribution:
3-Headquarters w/att.

CROSS REFERENCE TO
FILE
DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED
NOV 6 1962
ORIGINATOR
UNIT NUMBER

CLASSIFYING OFFICE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
(Classification of Message)
19-120-33

14-00000

Hilvald & LIFEA-6468

Miami 5 Oct 62

REPORTING AGENT: AMCONCERT-1

SUBJECT: Cira MARTINEZ, sia: "Cirita", very closely connected to
Manuel RAY.
SOURCE: Marta DIEZ Rivas, Married to Dr. Ricardo KACHIN. Was connect
in Havana with verious anti-Communist organizations.

On a visit I made to source, she told me that she had met Mrs.
Cira MARTINEZ in Havana. That Mrs. MARTINEZ used the clandestine
pacudonym "Josefina" and was married to architect Frank MARTINEZ.
That both subject and her husband were persons in the absolute
confidence of engineer Manuel RAY, and "Josefina" had been RAY's
secretary for a long time.

Source claims to have learned from "Josefina" that she was
dissatisfied with RAY's political actions, to the extent that RAY
wanted her to join the executive of the organization J.U.R.E. but she
had refused because she did not agree with the/of this
organization. That "Josefina" had described this organization as
a political movement the same as Castroism, only changing the name
of the leader. That tho knows the plan of this organization is to
organize all anti-BATISTA and anti-CASTRO organizations, under the
direction of the J.U.R.E., and develop a nationalistic and expecially
an anti-American policy in order to be able to group all the elements
existing in Cuba that have not figured prominently in the CASTRO
regime. After the fall of the CASTRO regime they plan to form a
strong political party in Cuba and capitalize on the mistakes committed
by the provisional Government. With this objective in mind, they will
stay separated from the C.R.O. and from all relations with the U.S.
Government in order to be able to carry out their plan freely.

Mrs. Cira MARTINEZ lives with her husband at 1004 NE 17th St.,
Miami, phone number PL-8-0483 on which they talk to many persons
related with RAY's plan.
NOTE: One of RAY's most trusted leaders in Miami is still Osorio
DAVILA, former treasurer of the 26th of July Movement and man in the
absoluto confidence of Haydee SANTEGARIA. For a long time DAVILA was
the Chief of the Havana Immigration Department, until he came to the
U.S. by boat from the coast of Miami. Some days ago I submitted a
detailed report on Osorio DAVILA, and also on Cremata and many other

14-00000
8 Oct 62, subjs Cira MARTINEZ (cont.)
own leaders of J.U.R.., because there is another group of
individuals whose nomes are not advertised but who have command powers
in the J.U.R.E. One of these men is Ignacio Ladon former leader of
the 26th of July Movement, private secretary of the Commissioner of
Havana Jose LLANUSA, and G-2 delegate in Havana City Hall. Ladon
persecuted many persons in the City Hall because he was the one who
made the lists of persons who should be watched, to the G-2. He also
had close connections with the Kinister of the Interior, Jose A.
NARANJO, whom he kept informed about the persons under suspicion who
worked in the Ministry of the Interior. One time LIDON visited KARANJO
and informed him, in the presence of KARANJO's secretary, Lucy
ICHEVERRIA, that he should keep Captain Ramon PADILLA, at that time
Chief of the Isle of Pines prison, under surveillance. In 1960 PADILLA
was preparing the escape of Captain Jorge Sori, and thanks to Lucy's
warning PADILLA took precautions and the plan could be carried out.
Ignacio LIDON lives in Miami but I don't know his home address.
Although he inter declared himself ca anti-comunist, and I think he
sought asylum in the Brasilien Embassy, I have no trust in him at all.

14-00000
SECRET
3004

On Sunday, October 28, I met twice with Manolo RAY of the Movimiento
Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP) at the San Juan Intercontinental Hotel, in
San Juan, Puerto Rico. My main objectives were: (1) to elicit from Ray
a a
list of Cubans, presently associated with the Castro regime, who are
critical of Castro and might be considered potential defectors; (2) to
obtain a list of Cubans, either inside or outside the island, who could be
available, in case of an emergency, to help in setting up some kind of
provisional government; and (3) to have his general views on the possibility
of an insurrectionary movement.

Since I had arranged to return to Washington on the same day, I did
not give Ray much time to do a thorough job. However, he was able to
furnish me with a list of names, covering points (1) and (2). He promised
to provide me with additional information after checking with some of his
associates in New York and Miami. His thoughts on the possibility of an
insurrectionary movement will be the subject of a separate memorandum.

LIST I

The persons herein indicated are either in Cuba or are working for
the Cuban Government. I add my own comments in parenthesis, based on
my conversations with Ray.
A - GENERAL

06 [Regino BOTI] Minister of Economy
(Ray feels he is disgusted with the Castro regime.
Instructions have gone out to sound him out. No
reply as yet.)

06 [Commander Ifigenio AIMEJEIRAS]
(Said to hold a key command position in Central
Cuba and to be thoroughly disgusted. Could be a
Key man in a top level revolt.)

06 [Commander Lester RODRIGUEZ]
(Has helped the MRP. His allegiance to Castro has
considerably weakened)

06 [Commander Padre MIRET]
(Very close to Rodrigues. Will most probably
follow him.)
Commander Rolando CUBELAS
(Is anxious to leave Cuba)

06 Rafael BETANCOURT
(Commands an artillery post. His brother [name un
furnished] is actively against the regime.)

SECRET

14-00000
To protect
identity of
Luis Pinedo
Suggest we
Redact "Policia Judicial"

06 [Captain Luis PINEDO Pares (Terry)
(Chief of the Policia Judicial. Has
talked against Castro
Commander Faustino PÉREZ
(Former Minister. I doubt his
views. Probably and agent.)

06 [Commander Antonio E. LUZON]
(Favorable to the MRP

06 [Commander Bernabe OMAT]
(In charge of FARSETRA)

06 [José NARANJO]
(Held key positien in Savana province. Reported
to have expressed strong views against Castro.)

06 [José ASSEF]
(Formerly connected with "Gobernacion". Also in
opposition to Castro).

06 [Sebastián ARCOS]
(Formerly connected with the Finance Ministry. Known
to be critical of regine.)

06 [Enrique IBARRA]
(Under-Secretary of Public Works. Favorably inclined
to the MRP)

06 [Armando FRANCO]
(Present post unknown. Reported to be against Castro.)

06 [Alfredo YABUR]
(Minister of Justice. Conflicting reports as to his
Allegiance to Castro.)

06 [Carlos LABONGA]
(Ambassador to Mexico. Has recently written to an
MRP Friend. Was exiled, might be anxious to defect.)

06 [Enrique RODRIGUEZ Loeche]
(Cuban Ambassador to Morocco. Presumed to be
anti-Castro.)

06 [José TEJÓN]
(One of the executive members of the Confederación
de Trabajadores Cubanos-Cuban Markers' Union.
Has been in contact with the MRP.)

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
-3-

06 [Joe DIAZ]
(Another labor leader, known to be anti-Castro.)
Captain Manuel CARBONELL]
06(Assistant to LINEJEIRAS. In opposition to
regime.)

06 [Commander Guillermo GARCIA]
(Active in the western provinces. The MIP is
checking on a report regarding his disaffection.)

06 [Antonio ESCOBAR]
(Was in command until recently of a naval post in
BARACOA. Definitely anti-Castro.)
06 [José COLÁ Colón]
(Also from Baracoa. In charge of one of the
militia regimenis.)

06 [Manuel PÉREZ]
(Municipal Treasurer, Baracoa. Decidedly anti-
Castro.)

06 [Taras DOSTRO]
(Held government position in Oriente. Known to
be Anti-Castro.)

06 [Captain Duque ESTRADA]
(has helped the MRP)

The "Alcaldes" (Mayors) of Camajuaní and (San Cristóbal) are believed
to be against the regime.

06 [José Angel ROMERO]
(A former businessman frva Baracoa.)

06 [Juan GUILLAMON]
(Also from Baracoa. A public accountant.)

Eeriberto DEL PORTO
Erasmo OCAÑA
José SARCHE
José MESA
Danilo MESA
Pedro IMIERSTAS Betancourt
Manuel DORTA Jaque

(Could be helpful in Havana
Province.)

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

06 [Agustin Tony]
(From Camaguey. Former governor in 1959-60.
Trusted by the original revolution.)

06 [Osorio DAVILA]
(Tery respected in Matanzas. Also linked with
the original revolution.)

06 [Argelio MARTINEZ]
(Former commissioner in Matanzas.)

06 [José DEL RIO Lago]
(A respected land surveyor in Pinar del Río.
Former Commander of the July 26 Movement.)

The main center of conspiracy within the government against Castro,
according to Rey, is the Planning Board (Junta Central de Planificación.)

D - TRAINED PERSONNEL

1. The following list includes technicians working for the government
under contract or as public officials. Those marked with an asterisk (*)
are highly trusted by Ray.

06 [Arq. Joaquín SEBARES]
Public Works, Oriente Province Aguilera 558,
Quantánamo)

06 [Arq. Carlos MAURI (Ma-uri, dr.)]
Municipality of Havana.

06 [Arq. Armando PUENTES]
Public Works, Havana Ave. 26 Between 29 & 27
Totado)

06 Arq. Marianao DOU Riera]
Municipality of Havana
Sta. Catalina 360, Vibora, Havana

06 [Arq. Rodolfo SANCHEZ García]
Public Works, Havana
25-15609, Marianao 08

06 [Arq. Fernando MuÑez de Villavicencio]
Public Works, Oriente
Ave. 94 F15007, Rpte. Cinódromo, Marianao]

06 [Arq. Gerardo CONEIRY Van Der Outch (Public Works, Habana)]
408 Between 27 & Jovallar, Kavana

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
-5-

06 [Arq. Julio ALDECOCEA]
(Las Villas) Bari. Retiro Odontológico 1302,
Vedado.

06 Arq. José MARZOL Valenzuela]
Professor at University of Havana.
Soto 550 Corner 1st, Arroyo Marando]

06 [Arq. Antonia SUAREZ]
Public Works, Havana
Ave. 11 4813, Marianao]

06 [Arq. Joaquín PELAEZ Canallata]
INRA, Havana
Infanta No. 24 - Apt. 601, Havana

06 [Francisco LARA]
88 A-45307, Marianao

06 [Messrs. Manuel and Mario LOPEZ]
Truck business
194 46510 - Between 65 y 73 Marianao]
Foremen in Public Works, Les Villas

06 [Arq. José CANAVES Ugalde]
Ave. 26 & Zoológico, Havana

2. Other trained personnel, not connected with the government.

06 [Arq. Pedro CUNSA(1),
Was in Public Works, Havana

06 [Arq. Felipe GOMEZ Albarrán]
Ex-professor University of Havana and Vilanova

06 Arq. Carlos MOURIN
Was in Public Works, Havana
(Ave. Zoológico 202, Vedado]

06 [Arq. Ricardo CORONAS Susport]
28 No. 270 Bet. 21 and 23, Vedado

06 [Arq. Alberto COURIEL]
Calsada No. 1059 Corm of 14, Vedado

06 [Arq. Rodolfo SOCARRAS Sanches]
Extension of Maceo, El Wann, 6dezin

06 [Arq. Miguel ALCOLADO de la Torre]
Kazino Gómez No. 3. Quantanamo

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

06 [Arq. Rodolfo TEARRA Peres]
President, National Collers of Architects,
15 ño. 259, Vista Alegre, Santiago de Cuba.

06 [Arq. Sebastian J. Rivero]
Terraza No. 155 Santiago de Cuba

06 [Arq. Emilio CARBO]
No. 8610 Between 86 and 88, Miramar, Havana

06 [Arq. Everardo GARCIA Fernández] Sa Ave., 6602
Marianao
06 [Mr. Anastasio ROSENORD]
Contractor 180 No. 4107 - Bet. 41 and 43, Marianao

06 [Mr. Manolo RODRIGUEZ]
Garage26 No. 502 Vedado
06 [Mr. Humberto RODRIGUEZ]
Plumber 60A, 2114, Karienso

06 [Mr. Marmel LOBELIA]
Electrician - Narianso.

06 [** Arq. Antonio VICO]
tahabans (Municipality of Marianao)

06 [Arq. José Roberto CEOMAT]
Ex-Dean University, School of Architecture
3rd Ave. 130 - Bet. 12 & 16, Kariana

October 30, 1962
