1400000

104-10061-10208

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
CLASSIFIED  CONFIDENTIAL XXX SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO | NAME AND ADDRESS  | DATE | INITIALS
---|---|---|---
1 | Bob Baker, FR/Plans |  | 
2 | EBU-6 |  | 
3 |  |  | 
4 |  |  | 
5 |  |  | 
6 | SUSAN WATKINS |  | 

ACTION | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY
---|---|---
APPROVAL | DISPATCH | RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT | FILE | RETURN
CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION | SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Russell Brines - Possialجے
Claudio Benedi
Mary Ellen Scott-PassIBLE
Gladys Benedi - RESIGNED &9.Fント 68
Jose Manuel Berenguer
Walter Briggs
Enoc Waters Fox
(Leonard J. Desmond FOSSIBLE
Howard Hao-Sheng Chao LAHTIVE. CURRENTLY
Edward Hau-Sang Lee NY
Russell Brines - POSSIBLE
Fred Zusy -FOSSB
Peter Knauer
Francisco Chen

FOLD HERE TO FRETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. | DATE
---|---
Susan Walkins CAS 1323 29 Mar 78

UNCLASSIFIED  CONFIDENTIAL XX SECRET
FORM NO 237 Use previous editions (40)

er
y
,
13

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP
'TO: | DATE 
---|---
ROOM NO. | BUILDING

REMARKS:
Ret - or, Howard M. 00569
at work 790-1990
Ret  Leo th
 2. Khi cho of alada
066678
Has - Mason, Hope - 018943
CT 1902
Re
Tyler, Royall 029615
3
582
-02958
Solobg
2. Sancomb, do wy
FROM:
ROOM NO. | BUILDING | EXTENSION
--- | --- | ---
FORM NO
FOEBS-241
REPLACES FORM 36-8
WHICH MAY BE USED. (47)

14-00000

Man
1. Jeni Woods & Wife (Louse) 27 Mar
0900
2

3. Fred Randall
7
24 Mar
1400

4. Pay sweder
27 Mar
1400

5. Pete Wheeler 28 Mar 78
-10AM

6. Thomas keeman-
10 30 7 24 Mar

7. Frank Estucona
il 30 28 Mar

8) Peggy Margar
1400 mar

14-00000

SENDER WILL CHE CLASSIFICATION. TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED  CONFIDENTIAL  SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS
---|---|---|---
1 | SA/DO/0 |  | 
४ | SHE PANER |  | 
3 |  |  | 
4 |  |  | 
5 |  |  | 
6 |  |  | 

ACTION | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY
---|---|---
APPROVAL | DISPATCH | RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT | FILE | RETURN
CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION | SIGNATURE

Remarks:
This is what I worked
out with Susan Watling.
She will review the
Subject files and the
will also call Tom Craw
fard in Contract personnel.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS PHONE NO. | DATE
---|---
Bat Baker | 30 Mar 75

UNCLASSIFIED  CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions (40)

1400000

CLASSIFIED
RNAL
ONLY CONF SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT
FROM: MAR 31 1028 AM '78
C/FR/Flans 1895 DATE 30 March 1978
2B19
TO (Officer designation, room number, and | DATE | OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) | RECEIVED | FORWARDED | INITIALS | to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.
---|---|---|---|---
Chief, CAS (300004) E-7 |  |  |  | Per our telecon yesterday, I am r
Attentions Susan Watkins |  |  |  | turning the list of names you pro
2. |  |  |  | vided ne for checking. I am only
3. |  |  |  | concerned about the protection of
4. |  |  |  | Howard Hao-Sheng Chao. He is a
5. |  |  |  | current asset of the FR Base New
6. |  |  |  | York. I would appreciate it if in
7. |  |  |  | the course of sanitizing any of
8. |  |  |  | the other names listed on the at
9. |  |  |  | tached routing slip, you would
10. |  |  |  | ċelete Howard's as well. Many
11. |  |  |  | thanks.
12. |  |  |  |
13. |  |  |  | Bob Baker
14. |  |  |  |
15. |  |  |  |

#4476

FORM 610 USE OPREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 EDITIONS USE ONLY
