1.  10.00000
104-10414-10025
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT:
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
Kleins S. de MOHRENSCHILDT

DATE: 
6 Noe 76
FILE NUMBER:

1.  The Interagency Sasman Register has no record of Subject (ind in the 1960's).

2.  CI/OA has no record of Subject.

3.  Check WUBRINY (pass) -

4.  Check LA/Haiti (Vivian Sterlits) -

5.  DCD file - (expired attached)

Re separate request on FRIGAUD, Jome (travelling in Belgian passport in 1960's) - IPS has no record.

FORM 7-62 1954
OFFICE AND TITLE
CLASSIFICATION
SIGNATURE
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION
(40)

---

13-00000

6AN
Need letter
Need fofre
Jofre DDO Material
Matinell

1.  Don Messy get both cases for Morre

Frequent request.

2.  No. 05 file instrad. Content
   
file. If only ref are DODSER, not public
3DCD material can bel made available - at high-
   level authority, for him to see there.

4.  Call Brodie (16) to reply if we
    haven't seen. Should gr - 201. Convert to file?
    
    Messy can get fr fC, but if its from DDO we
    would love to review it.

5.  Vivian Hardillo (Haiti) has 201 file. To identify
    public re we will intercept f[we] can't protect that.
    (Dc/o US Eemb & we got it), segregating then + FBI material,
    all else, panitize it.

6.  Check ISR and all other on list to see what they
    have.
    
7.  Batten memo to bite re Port article by Kanolen.

8.  Find out from Vivian re what stay war.

9.  Is it the same if /p Eemb & Eemb opened it an
    American US mail?

---

13-00000

Chach following -
Gene de Mohrenschuld.

CI/OC-Norman Ort
-CI Staff (Russ Hines)
JMWAVE (Thion Stinbits)
LA/Haiti (Vivian Garinella)
ISR -03
CCS - (Eich Isenstead)
IG - (Al Biodio)

WUBRINY/1 file
-April 1'63 - intradoed
by Clement Davy - Charles finans
15 May 163 - sent to W/ ADI
21 May 63

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO: Eric
DATE: 26 Nev

ROOM NO. BUILDING

REMARKS:

Those are my notes in the 
9. do M. matters. I'd like
to go over them with you in 
Monday to see if you and judee
may some of the pieces. In 
fertility should do an M/Ra
comenity; inter in Moore-sensitivities!
FROM:

ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION

FORM FEB 55-241
REPLACES FORM 36-6
WHICH MAY BE USED.

---

13-00000

PRIVACY ACT-to the extent it is under our jurisdiction
OSS organization in 1942 (DI. Nownin)

57-58 - Jugoslain-derinly DCD
[CI Stay]
23~24
Teshified before Warren Commis.
Masain FBI wienwer upster
Dec 63 - Hauti' - same reprinter
We funed to Warren Commis.
al so saund I anci.

Also fused to Burns in 1965 all in ON

Commercial Ops port 7 Do Duri
Thomspred to 1963
Gale Allen
WUBRINY/1 = Jolen Pell Carter Then
still a amket ager

WUSALINE = [Comm 24]
Gale Barkley CCS
Jhon header

---

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:
per Now

Joe Blow th

Don Moore (de Morenshield)
will be here on Friday at 0930
(in OLC office to review material
Stan. [de Fende] ecur had so little info
that they should be dove away
with first. Think Moore
should be ready to review DDO
material @ 10-030.

Date 8 Dec 76

USE PREVIOUS:
5-75 101 EDITIONS
