14-00000
104-10176-10010 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
ROLANDO MAEFERRER, JR.

A-16-88-46
BUSINESS:
Subject is the Vice President of Sales at the following Corporation:
A168762 - Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs, Georgia

14-00000

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL
☐ SECRET ☐ TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

FOIA/P Request No. F17-260
Dated: 

Document Description:
Document Located by: DCD
(OFFICE DESIGNATION)
Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:
☐ Release in full-text
☐ Release in sanitized form
☐ Deny in toto
☐ Defer decision to
Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:
FOIA PRIVACY
( ) Classification (b)(1) (k)(1)
( ) Information from a foreign liaison service (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)
( ) Information pertaining to a foreign liaison (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)
relationship
( ) Information which would/could identify the (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
source
( ) Information pertaining to a source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
( ) Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
( ) Location of CIA overseas installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
( ) Location of unacknowledged domestic (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
installation
( ) Name of CIA employee (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)
( ) File number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)
( ) Pseudonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
( ) Cryptonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
( ) Internal organizational data (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)
( ) Name of an FBI agent (b)(7) (j)(1)(b)
( ) FBI file number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)
( ) Privacy of other individual (b)(6) (j)(1)(f)
(*) Does not pertain to request N/A "Exempted portions
are not relevant
to the requester"
( ) Information from another Government agency (b)(1) (j)(1)(c)
*() Other, specify:

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943,
16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).
COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

(SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICER & OFFICE) DCD
May ?? Document No.
(To be completed by ISS/PICG)
E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL
☐ SECRET ☐ TOP SECRET

14-00000

Office Memozandum : UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 29 March 1972
FROM: 
SUBJECT: Offenses, Loneroso

1. Subject came to the attention of this office as the director of the "Lonerose, Inc.",
with registered offices in Hialeoh, Florida and registered agents outside the United States,
specifically in South America.

2. See the attachment of having been down on his luck for
several years.

3. Subject came to the attention of the Clandestine Services in December
in Cleveland on 7 February 1971 and has been seen in the
of that case.
of their interest in me.
4. Subject, by his own admission,
is of poor and questionable
5. Rolando MacFerrer, is a 

, as
sister-in-law. See attachment.

6. Subject now google on with an
Comunist in Cuba who has close and
to Castro. The
,
but has since
interest in Cuba,
comes. This was never to be trusted according to some of our

7. Subject could write a contract en
8. The main thing is that Subject is still in touch with
to the
:
in
, is also anti-
of those

14-00000

:.

:

the first day, later
:
in the
, the
the
building Cannery to
he studied two of the recoors.
allusion out esca or pretext of taking those to have
there crested 

. Wasferrer started actively
,
but never checking them out. The
were
the service of Castro. See attachment: The Masferrer task force's bureau chief was 
, of
, a former director of the Castro

many other elements police. the
also came. There were
well. Janitor Po claimed to have entered the guerilla at an early are in the

his talents. he also certain
that he had sanitary experience, but he proved to adept at that 
became an
out of the task force. one element also
was in crazy 20's, and

and claimed to 
beer a teacher. In the course the evening at the bar, one of the

the other. Gee overhead the teams
force though not Identify
three has

thrown cut the tack force.
of
the dissident report.

22 pistel. besides Gee's weapon, the firearms
that the group had were a 12-gauge shotgun and a 20 mil. Was unable to keep up with the rigorous
to drop the habit of rising early in the

e now to appropriate one
reason, to the remark in the office was because bits
the other and
:

was 
but had de
a
it out butter declined to

Pestomer, upon his return to the
:
involved se the at the plant at that
then

14-00000
take one then
;
in the task Force
on

10.
:
-
along

17 the Comunistaa,
the

30.
outside
:
2. 
:

14-00000

:

:

32.
4
:
:

13

2-banket--etarcourt Plun:

In one
102

100 and

Cee and
and
of 100

and for the

and be
is
to the

The that be

a
the that
to the
The
an
-
-

14-00000

☐

:

-.
アンら
.:..
J

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDETIAL
INITIAL REVIEW FO
Document Description:
Document Located by:
LOFFICE LESIGNATION
Document referred to DCO for review by:
RECOMMEND:
Release in full-text
Release in sanitized fora
Dery in toto
Defer decision to
Coordination with
TOP SECRET
FOTA/P Request No. 17-260
Dated:
Mein werd
prior to above denial/release
ELOPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:
FOLA
PRIVACY
(*) Classification
(b) (1)
(k) (1)
() Information from a foreign liaison service
() Information pertaining to a foreign liaison
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b) (c)
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b) (c)
relationship
() Information which would/could identify the
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b)
source
(Information pertaining to a source
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b)
(Information pertaining to intelligence method's
(b) (3)
(j)(1)(b)
() Location of CIA overseas installation
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b)
() Location of unacknowledged domestic
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b)
installation
() Name of CLA employce
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (e)
(File number
(b) (2)
(3)(1)(b)
() Pseudonym
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b)
() Cryptozym
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (b)
() Internal organizational data
(b) (3)
(j) (1) (c)
() Name of en FBI agent
(b) (7)
(j) (1) (b)
() FBI File number
(b) (2)
(j) (1) (b)
(Privacy of other individual
(b) (6)
(j) (1) (k)
() Does not pertain to request
N/A
"Exempted portions
are not relevant
to the regrester"
(b) (1)
(j) (1) (c)
() Information from another Covernment agency
8
*() Other, specify:
*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943,
16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (ΓΟΙΛ).
COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:
:
Document No.
SIGNATURE WE REVIEWING OFFICER & OFFICE
(To be completed by ISS/PICG)
may ??
E 2 INDET CL BY:
UNCLASSIFIED
☐ CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
TOP SECRET

14-00000
COUNTRY
CATE OF
PLACE
DATE ACO
SOURCE
CENTRAL INITELICENCE AGENCY
REPOTE NO
co-(3) 3,251,678
DATE CSER
NO. PAGES
REFERENCES
Eiland Suan Shiva
4766 akton R
THIS IS UNEVALUATE MH.
at cmscsion of a foram Can thres
cmc23:12 with
Some stulted the ears of web Kavano
sich fonts to be pro-03.acerice
this cote.

Ar Force כניpresentative assigned to
Collections ree in Ciredar, Inle of Fier Frisca,
E24 Dec:

Robert Jean Contica, bem es
more; kom lesen:
helco Ave, Clevels, Chio. I
ves caught in the Copacabana, rear, Havana, in Lember 1960
Seletrg e comtemetlution is alley belengal te a secret
-Centro :nowrcent. He was proud to have helped in an uprising
La De Escabray ikusteins in early rewring 15-year
grison tena. He is in argant aced of modicel care, har a stomach er,
and is losing weight Patly. He has lost 70 lbs since be hos been t
con. I caw him before I cm. He is us but a and bours.
:

Eustace, Gro", 157 lbo, cs, dark broמים מ
