104-10110-10433
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE NO. 202 067 DATE 23 May 1961
:

SYNOPSIS

Live address established at (5611 Jason Street, 10
Cheverly, Maryland, on 17 May 1951. Householder and
all adult members of his family were briefed. House-
holder notified local Post Office (Chaverly) that SUB-
JECT was residing with him and also requested local
Post Office to notify (Hyattsville) Post Office. Western
Union telegram forwarded on 18 May 1961 for Gladys G.
DAMBRUNT.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

REPORT NO. 1250

3/PV

422 067 23 May 1961

GENERAL

At Cheverly, Maryland:

On 17 May 1961, a live address was established for Gladys
G. DAMBRUNT at 5611 Jason Street, Cheverly) Maryland, through the
cooperation of Dr. (Edward A.) and (Anne B. SALLOOM), householder at
that address.
06 06 06

On the same date, Mrs. (SALLOOM), her daughter, (Patricia) and
son, George, were briefed to the effect that they should accept
any cables, letters, telegrams or telephone calls for Mrs. DAMBRUNT.
In the event any inquiries were received concerning Mrs. DAMBRUNT,
they were to advise that Mrs. DAMBRUNT was residing with them but
that she was not available at the moment. They were to determine
who was calling and the purpose of the call. If the call was from
the cable or telegraph office, Mrs. (SALLOOM) or Patricia was to call
back later as Mrs. DAMBRUNT and receive the message and request
delivery of the written cable or telegram. In the event the inquiry
was from any other source, they were to contact the Reporting Agent
immediately.

The same individuals were further briefed, in general, as to
why Mrs. DAMBRUNT was supposedly residing with them and why she was
expecting some form of communication. They were informed that Mrs.
(ANTHONY) was the mother of Eustace H. DAMBRUNT, who was being held
a prisoner by a foreign government. The mother has sent a cable
to her son asking how he is, whether he needs anything, inquiring
if there is anything she can do for him, and asking him to please
communicate with her. She is now awaiting and expecting some form
of reply from him.
06

On the following day, 18 May 1961, Dr. (SALLOOM) was contacted.
The above information had been related to him by Mrs. (SALLOOM) at
the request of the Reporting Agent. Dr. (SALLOOM) was requested to
notify the (Cheverly) and the (Hyattsville) Post Offices that Mrs.
DAMBRUNT was residing at his home and any mail received for her
should be delivered to his address.
06

On 22 May 1961, Dr. (SALLOOM) was again contacted and he advised
that he had personally called the Postalstress at the (Cheverly) Post
Office regarding delivery of Mrs. DAMBRUNT's mail and had requested

-1-

202 067

her, in turn, to notify the (Hyattsville) Post Office.
10
Dr. (SALLOOM) is a well-known (Washington dentist). He maintained
an office at (810 "K" Street, N.E.06) for a number of years until he 08
was drafted into military service. He served in the Army as a (den-
tist) and upon his release, as a Lieutenant Colonel, he re-opened
08 his private practice with an office at (1035 "F" Street, N.W.For)
A number of years he was on the (Staff of Georgetown University as)08
an instructor of dentistry in the (Georgetown Dental School) 08 He
has resided in (Cheverly) Maryland for at least the past twenty
years, previously at (2816 Laurel Avenue) and currently at (5611 08
Jason Street). His daughter, (Patricia), is attending Maryland Uni-
versity. His son, (George), is attending (St. John's) College High
School.
06 06

Daily contact was maintained with Dr. (SALLOOM) on 22, 23 and
24 May 1961. As of the latter date, no communication had as yet
been received for Mrs. DAMBRUNT.

On 18 May 1961, a Western Union Telegram was sent to Eustace
DAMBRUNT, Reclusorio Nacional, Nueva Gerona, Isla de Pinos, Cuba.
A copy of this telegram is attached as Exhibit #1.

Attachment:
Exhibit #1 (Western Union Telegram dated 18 May 1961)

JDS: mhm

-2-
