104-10225-10027
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVISED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE OF ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBER

SUBJECT

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: TER PSYCH WARFAREGENERAL
COUNTRY CHILE
INCLUSIVE DATES: FEBRUARY 1973-74

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
------ | ------ | ------ | ------
RECEIVED | RETURNED | | |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
No.

---

(component) | (56/A3/L)
------ | ------ 
C/IP/DNS | 
TO: (Station/) | FROM: (Division)
Santiago, Chile | C/LA

COMPLETE THROUGH 12. | INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS
------- | ------
USEL STERILE SINCE THEY WILL | 10-ITEMS 7, 8, & 12
APPEAR ON COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS. TAG ALL PRE TITLES MUST BE SHORT AND TO THE POINT, AND TAG-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.
ITEMS 1 & 2: USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DIVISION SYMBOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS/Bases. ITEM II: FILLERS OF DISPATCH MUST ALSO BE TAGGED IN THE INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE ELEMENTS ACCORDING TO PUBLISHED NUMERIC CODES.

TYPE OF FILE | INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE | IF AMENDING EXISTING FILE, SEE NOTES
------- | ------ | ------ 
[X] SUBJECT | COUNTRY NUMBER: 015 | CODES
[] PROJECT | CODE (FILE NUMBER): 126 | CATEGORY NUMBER: 003

3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT/PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES):
Psych Warfare General

ANALYSIS ACTION | ACTION REQUIRED | FOR FILLING, CONSULT YOU FIR
------- | ------ | ------
AMEND FILE | CLOSE FILE  |  |
OPEN FILE | DEPOSITION | RETAIN | DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY): | 8. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK (LIST ACTION DESK ONLY):
HCS | OS
RESTRICTED |FILES ACTION
------ | ------
HOLI IN |[X] UNRESTRICTED | PREPARE FOLDER AND SEND TO REQUESTER | CHANGE PERMANENTLY TO ______ OFFICER & DESK
CS FILES
------
9. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS:

11.ENDORSEMENT 
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R.O. 
EFFECTIVE DATE:
12-15
12:00
12. COORDINATION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
(WHEN APPLICABLE)
Previous File Number

612. OS 
SECRET

13. RID APPROVAL
REQUEST APPROVED BY.
 CODE FILE NUMBER:
38
L-CS COPY

---

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIONA | CENTER USE ONLY
:
AGE
LIN
ALF
104
OMF
REPLIC
0 0 0 0 0
SECRET
MESSAGE MANOLING INDICATOR
0
0
21-2
DC
DC
A
DAIS TIME GROUP
STAFF
CONF: LA 8
0522372
INFO: FILE 18/1AN, 5SS, PSDDE
DAOIDO, PS/EGY, OPS/INF,
PAGE #1
OF
ENCE NUMBER
PAGES 614080
BONI ON
DISSEM BY:
PAGES
0
RETURN TO
PER
WH/4 Scy
0
PPRES
#
TO: CARACAS, GUAYAQUIL, BOGOTA, SAN JOSE, BUENOS AIRES, QUITO INFO
SANTIAGO, LIMA. Y

VWNUMBER MHSPAWN Y
REF: SANTIAGO 30693 | IN 4046041 (BEING RELAYED ADDRESSESES) Y

30
1. REF BEING RELAYED ADDRESSEES IS REPORT 31 OCT ANNOUNCEMENT
BY GENERAL PINOCHET DECLARING FREEDOM OF PRESS IN CHILE. SUGGEST
RATHER THAN REPLAYING EL MERCURIO ARTICLE TRANSCRIBED IN REF YOU USE
THAT MERELY AS BASIS FOR EDITORIAL COMMENT. PINOCHET'S STATEMENT PUTS
EMPHASIS ON CONTENTION THAT PRESS COENSORSHIP CHAS NOT EXISTED IN
CHILE UNDER JUNTA NOR DOES IT NOW. THAT ARGUMENT UNFORTUNATELY WILL
HAVE LITTLE CREDIBILITY OUTSIDE CHILE SO RECOMMEND EDITORIAL COMMENT
EMPHASIZE THESE POINTS: Y

A. CHILEAN PRESIDENT HAS DECLARED THERE WILL BE NO PRIOR
CENSORSHIP IN CHILE. Y
8. PINOCHET DECLARED THAT JUNTA IS WAIVING PRIOR CENSORSHIP
OF PRESS DESPITE FACT THAT STATE OF EMERGENCY CONTINUES IN CHILE. Y
C. JUNTA ACTION APPEARS REEFLECT CONFIDENCE EES IN ITS
AGILITY TO MAINTAIN STABILITY OF POLITICAL SITUATION. Y

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
Psych fil

GRA
11. ADING OFFICEe
COJADINATING OFFICES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIDITED -E 2 IMPDET

---

14-00000

ONE OMF
OUTGOING MESSAGE

AL CENTERUSE ONLY
ACP
0
0
0
0
0
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING IPOICA FOR
STAFF
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME GROUP

cre
DIRECTOR
618080
AOGES
PAGES
2

MESSAGE OPERENCE NUMBER
CONF: 0
IP 1.3
DISSEM BY:

PER

#
TO APEARTLARENTACONTRASFOOR THIS GESTURE OF CONFIDENCE WITH
BERU'S CONFISCATION OF PRIVATEEXNOWNED PRESS TUOZMONTHS AGO

2. BUENOS AIRES: CAN NTTHRIFTY-1 BARRANGE PICK UP FOR ANSA
WIRE? Y
3. GUAYAQUIL, QUITO: SUGGEST YOU HAVE PJVANDYKE-1 OR
PJNETWORK-1 TIME THEIR COMMENTS TO COINCIDE WITH OAS MEETING. Y

4. FILE: 200-120-356. E-2 IMPDET.A
DATE: 5 NOVEMBER 1974
ORIG: E. JAMES MCTIGHE
UNIT: C/LA/CA
EXT: 1553,

DC/LA/CAM
C/LA/NU

C/LA/SB
AC/LA
COORDINATING OFFICE
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
LASSORTI
C/LA/CA
E 2 IPDET
CL BY:

---

14-00000

OUTCOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
AO
OMF 0 0 0 0 0
CLAVATION
SECRET
SINDICATUR
STAFF
CONF: CLA 8 INFO:
0
0
5-182118
10 14861
PAGES

DATE TIME GROUP
2016212
INFO: FILE /M/I/N, DOI 002/00 /
$/15/EG-3
TO: SANTIAGO. Y
PYEAT VUNUNGER Y
cre
DIRECTOR
14 611733
OPPILS OISSEM DY
REF: SANTIAGO 30589 IN 3913831

1. YOUR OBSERVATIONS CONFIRM THOSE COS. GIVEN NO NEED MAKE
* RADICAL CHANGE IN CURRENT POLICY AND PRACTICE SUGGEST GOC BE
INFLUENCED TO ISSUE PUBLIC STATEMENT DECLARING THAT JUNTA HAS
RESTORED CONDITIONS OF POLITICAL STABILITY TO EXTENT THAT PRIOR CEN-
SORSHIP OF FRESS NO LONGER DEEMED NECESSARY. TO GUIDE THE WARY AT
HOT SPOKESMAN MIGHT ADD, LAWS GOVERNING CRIMINAL LIEEL WILL CONTINUE
TO CE ENFORCED. Y

2. FOR FULL IMPACT, OF COURSE, IT WOULD BE IDLE FOR GOC TO
ARQUE THAT UP TO THIS POINT THERE HAS BEEN NO PRIOR CENSORSHIP. FEEL
STATUS QUO ANTE SHOULD DE IGNORED AND EMPHASIS PLACED ON FACT THAT
CONDITIONS NOU SUCH THAT CONSTITUTIONALLY RECOUNIZED CONDITION OF
FRESS FREEDOM CAN OBTAIN,
3. FILE: 200-120-356

Psych file
21 OCT 74 /
DATE:
ORIG: E. JAMES ACTIGHE:MK
C/LA/CA
OT:
CY 22: 1553
C/LA/SD/
2325
LALRENCE C. LASER
LA/SB
CL CV:663457
REPRODUCE BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
CECRET

---

14-00000
OUTGOING "ESSAGE
A SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
•TOB
MRO
omF 0 0 0 0
CLASSINATION
SECRET
MESSACE BANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF: //LA8
INFO: FILE
5
MOP
4.
PAGES
16-3
11
DATE TIME GROUP
1916162
Cre
DIRECTOR 611750
C/M/Y C/EURE C/SES BY 22
4/588
10:
TO: PRIORITY LONDON INFO SANTIAGO, ROME٠٢
RYBAT MHSPAWN REDLEG Y
REF: LONDON 54017 |IN 3901151 4
1. ACCORDING AP RELEASE DATELINED MOSCOW 17 OCTOBER, SOVIETS HAVE
DENIED VALIDITY OF STORY THAT RED CROSS EMPLOYEE IN CHILE TO
NEGOTIATE PRISONER EXCHANGE. WISH USE THIS DENIAL AS PEG REVIEW
PREVIOUS SOVIET PRISONER EXCHANGES CABBEL COMES TO MINDY WHICH ALSO
HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT IN STRICT SECRECY AND TO SPECULATE ON WHAT
CORVALAN AND OTHERS KNOW THAT JOULD MAKE THEM SO IMPORTANT TO SOVIET :
GOVERNMENT. BELIEVE ROBERT MOSS, IF HE STILL HAS ACCESS TO LONDON
MEDIA, WOULD BE GOOD CHOICE WRITE SUCH ARTICLE BECAUSE OF HIS
KNOWLEDGE OF CHILE AND ABILITY USE HIS BACKGROUND FOR SPECULATION ON
KINDS OF INFORMATION CORVALAN HAS THAT COULD EMBARRASS SOVIETS. CAN
MENTION SOVIET CLANDESTINE FUNDING ALLENDE'S ELECTIONS, TACTICAL B
PCCH ALLIANCE WITH SOCIALISTS, CUBAN AND SOVIET AID TO ARMED PCCH
RO
UNIONS, LONG-RANGE PLANS FOR EVENTUAL PCCH PUTSCH TO OVERTHORW ALLENDE.
५ A. BUENOS AIRES TELAM CIN SPANISH) REPORTED 17 OCT THAT RED
CROSS ENVOY IS DENIS FELDMEYER AND THAT HE CARRIED TO CHILE SOVIET
DATE: (2,3,4
RELEASING OFFICEES
RECORD COPY

 COORDRATING OPPICERS
CLASSIFICATION
" REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET 1
AUTHENTICATING OFFICERS
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
AOI
:
L' 01
OME 0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
44
MESSAGES AND INDICATOR
1: DATETIME GROUP

""DIRECTOR 411750
CUNF:
INFO: FILE 1
000
073

DISSEM BY: 3
1 PER

44 UNION'S ACCEPTANCE OF CONDITIONS IMPOSED BY JUNTA WHEREBY THE SOVIET
UNION MUST FREE AN EQUAL NUMBER OF POLITICAL PRISONERS AS FREED BY
CHILE. WHEN GRUNO DOPPLER, INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS REPRESENTATIVE
IN CHILE WAS QUESTIONED ABOUT FELDMEYER'S MISSION, HE DENIED THAT HE
WAS ON THAT TYPE OF MISSION. BUT LATER WHEN ASKED WHETHER IT WAS
TRUE THAT FELDMEYER CARRIED WITH HIM THE SOVIET ACCEPTANCE, HE
ANSWERED, "THERE IS NO CONFIRMATION. IT IS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
THE CHILEAN AUTHORITIES ARE THE OBNES TO CONFIRM IT." V

B. AP. 110SCOW 17 OCTOBER: "THE SOVIET GOVERNMENT DENOUNCED
AS &'A FORGERY' A CHILEAN NEWSPAPER REPORT THAT THE SOVIET UNION IS
APPARENTLY WILLING TO RELEASE SOME POLITICAL PRISONERS IN RETURN FOR
RELEASE OF IMPRISONED LEFTISTS IN CHILE. Y

"SERGEI BULANTSEV, A COMMENTATOR FOR THE OFFICIAL NEWS AGENCY
TASS BSAID THURSDAY THE LA SEGUNDA STORY HAD BEEN 'CONCOCTED BY
FASCIST-MINDED GENERALS WHO SEEK TO DIVERT WORLD ATTENTION FROM THE
ATROCITIES AND ARBITRARINESS THERE.' Y

"GEN. AUGUSTO PINOCHET, CHIEF OF STATE OF CHILE, SAID CHILE
WOULD LIBERATE RELEASE ALL ITS PRISONERS IF THE SOVIET UNION AND CUBA
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

REPRODI OTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIEDTED
 AUTHENTICATING OPPICE
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL COURONLY

OMF 0 0
FLASSIPICATION

SECRET
MESSAGE INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE
ACF
DC
0
0
0
0
0
3
PAGE OF PAGES
3
DATE TIME GROUP
CITR
DIRECTOR
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

0
DISSEM BY:
FEO
0
PER
44750
#
AGREED TO LIBERATE AN EQUAL NUMBER OF THEIR PRISONERS. Y

"DESPITE DOCUMENTED CHARGES BY INTERNATIONAL GROUPS AND
DISSIDENTS WITHIN THE SOVIET UNION THAT PERSONS ARE PREOSBECUTED HERE
FOR THEIR POLITICAL BELIEFS, MOSCOW INSISTS THAT THERE ARE NO
POLITICAL PRISCHERS IN THE SOVIET UNION." V

2. PLS CABLE TEXT ARTICLE TO HAS FOR REPLAY. Y
4. FILE: DEFER. E-2 IMPDET.A

DATE: 18 OCTOBER 1974
ORIG: MARTIN MILLER
UNIT: LA/CA
EXT: 9011

EUR/BC

E/E/CA
AC/LA

COORDINATING OFFICERS
40007-61A - 15
CLASSIFICA
14-126-3
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

G/IMPOT
CL BY:
SECRET

---

14-00000

CABLE BECOSSEN BY
32

TOTAL
TOTAL
PER
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

LADYANCE.COPY 189URD 9601110

ACTION UNIT 4
HF FILE VR

CEURG 3 3 SS34
ACTION

T 499138 E1A362

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
PAGE 01
TOR:1718122 OCT 74
*
SECRET 1715372 OCT 74 OCT 74 STAFF
CITE LONDON 54017
TO: DIRECTOR, ROME INFO SANTIAGO.

RYBAT MHSPAWN REDLEG
REF A, DIRECTOR 604965
B. DIRECTO 609942

1. CREUTERS STORY DATELINED SANTIAGO IN 17 OCTOBER "TIMES"
IS HEADLINED "RUSSIA KESPONDING TO CHILE CALL TO FREE PRISONERS."
HIGHLIGHTS AS FOLLOWS:

"THE SOVIET UNION IS PREPARING TO RELEASE A LIMITED
NUMBER OF TOP POLITICAL PRISONERS IN RESPONSE TO A
CHALLENGE BY THE CHILEAN MILITARY JUNTA. INFORMED
SOURCES SAID TODAY.

"A RED CROSS EMMISSARY WAS DUE TO ARRIVE HERE TONIGHT
FROM GENEVA WITH A LIST OF 120 CHILEAN PRISONERS THE
RUSSIANS WANT RELEASED IN EXCHANGE FOR THE FREEDOM GIVEN
TO ITS OWN DETAINEES, THE SOURCES SAID. THERE WAS NO
OFFICIAL CONFIRMATION OR DENIAL OF THE REPORT FROM EISTHER
GUVERNMENT OR RED CROSS OFFICIALS."
ARTICLE RECOUNTS PINOCHET CHALLENGE TO MOSCOW AND HAVANA AND
REUGD LUPY
15-126-3

---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEMB
PERSON UNIT NOTIPIRO

ADVANCE CORY IDPURD SLOJIRO
ACTION UNIT

ACTION.

T 499133
PER

13.
TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
SECRET

AL
FILE VR

NPO
EI4362
4-
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
IQGUING OFFICE 10 PROHIBITED
STAFF

2
IN 390115
PAGE 22
TOH11722122 CCT 74
LOND 54017.

POINTS OUT CHILE HAS SINCE FREED MORE THAN 322 DETAINEES

WITH "UNTIL NOW, NG APPARENT RESPONSE," ALSO ADDS LUIS CORVALEN
LEADS THE KREMLIN LIST,
2. APART FROM SEW DIMENSION ADDED TO REF PROPOSALS BY
ABOVE. WE DO NOT BELIEVE AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (AI) COULD BE
INDUCED TO TAKE UP ISSUE, AS NOTED REF AT HAS VERY PRESCRIBED
APPROACHES AND TECHNIQUES WHICH IT USES TO HANDLE, VIA A CHAIN
OF 
FOIVIDUAL
INDIVIDUAL SPONSORS, INDIVIDUAL CASES. WHILE THEY MAY
OCCASIONALLY USE PUBLICITY IF ALL ELSE FAILS THEY BASICALLY REGARD
IT AS A DISTINCT INHIBITION TO THE SUCCESS OF THEIR BEHIND THE
AI'S POSITION ON THE CHILEAN
SCENES PERSON TO PERSON TECHNIQUE.
CHALLENGE WOULD PROBABLY ALSO BE NEGATIVELY INFLUENCED BY ITS
HAVING ONLY VERY RECENTLY ACCEPTED A MOSCOW CHAPTER DESPITE THE
STRONG OBJECTIONS OF SOME OF ITS KEY LEADERS. SINCE OUR ASSETS
WERE ACTIVELY ENGAGED IN FORCING THIS ISSUE THEY ARE NOT IN A
SECURE POSITION TO TAKE THE LEAD ON THIS ONE ESPECIALLY GIVEN
THE EXTREME UNPOPULARITY OF THE OVERALL CHILE STORY,
3. WE CAN CONTINUE TO BE ALERT TO OPPORTUNITIES FOR SOME
FORM OF MEDIA PLACEMENTS TO ACCOMPLISH REF GOALS BUT WE HAVE
TO ESTIMATE THAT CHANCES OF ANY OF OUR ASSETS BEING ABLE TO

SECR٠

---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEN BY
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE.COMY IDQUEU SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

ACTION

T 499138
PER

TOTAL COPIES
BY
SECRET
AI
RF FILE VR

NFO
E1A302

HEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
IGBUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF
PAGE 03-33
TOR:1718122 OCT 74
2
IN 392115
LOND 54017

CATALYZE ANY ORGANIZATIONAL ACTIVITY BY GROUPS WHOSE VOICE
WOULD COUNT ARE EXTREMELY LIMITED AND WOULD INVOLVE MORE RISKS
THAN THE ODDS WOULD PROBABLY JUSTIFY. WE HAVE BROUGHT

SCHWERSUN'S ATTENTION TO THE SITUATION INCLUDING THE PARA ONE
STORY, HE NUTED THAT AI EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HAS RECENTLY
VOTED IN NEW AND TO SOME EXTENT UNTRIED MEMBERSHIP, ALTHOUGH
NEW COMPUSITON COMMITTEE MAY IN LONG RUN BE LESS INCLINED
TO AVOID ACTION WHICH PUTS PRESSURE ON SOVIETS, SUCH ISSUES
PRESENTLY ALL THE MORE CONTROVERSIAL WITHIN AI IN VIEW NEWNESS
COMMITTEE AND NOT LIKELY RECEIVE CONSTRUCTIVE ATTENTION UNTIL
COMMITTEE SHAKES DOWN, WILL ADVISE DEVELOPMENTS.

4, FILE DEFERM E2 IMPDET
J
SECRET
15-126-3

---

14-00000
OUTGOING 88AGE
SIGNAL CENTER ONE ONLY

OMF O 00 SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATE
00

569.
DIRECTOR607942
COMF d LAB  INFO  FILE:  TO: ROME, LONDON, INFO SANTIAGO. Y.
RYBAT MHSPAWN REDLEG Y
REF:
DIRECTOR 6049635 Y
C: 1
W
3
PAGES
3

1. GIVEN PERISHABILITY REF IDEAS, REQUEST YOUR COMMENT ON
FEASIBILITY OF APPROACHES TO DEFLOWER AND AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL AS
OUTLINED. WELCOME ANY OTHER SUGGESTIONS ON MEANS LIMIT FURTHER
ANTI-8KHERALD PROPAGANDA IN RELATION TO CHILE AND ANTI-JUNTA

A
