14-00000
104-10236-10053 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISTRI:

ACTION:

INFO:

TO

DEFERRED

RRRRROUTINE

DIR
GYROSE AMBUD

REF A. DIR 40582
B. KNGS Ø202

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS
RF

INFO
DATE: 11 OCT 62

FILE:

INCOMING NUMBER
DTO 1010082 11558

CITE
WAVE
KNGS Ø208
NUMBER

1. COS BELIEVES HIS REF B APPRAISAL JAMAICAN POLITICAL CLINATE RE
ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD DELEGATION HERE CORRECT. JAMAICAN GOVT WANTS NOT
BE OVERTLY INVOLVED IN COLD WAR AND OUT OF CONCERN FOR SAB SAFETY LARGE
JAMAICAN COMMUNITY CUBA WILL MAKE STRENUOUS EFFORT TO STAY OUT.
HOWEVER THEY WILL HELP COVERTLY WHEREEVER POSSIBLE. ANY ATTEMPT INVOLVE
JAMAICAN GOVT AGAINST ITS WILL AT THIS TIME WOULD RESULT IN NET
LOSS OF COOPERATION NOW AND IN FUTURE, STATION REGARDS INCREASING
COOPERATION OF RUABBE SERCIVE IN CUBAN OBJECTIVES OF CONSIDERABLE VALUE.

2. IF HQS BELIEVES AMBUD REP SHOULD VISIT JAMAICA TO TEST POLITICAL
XKXXM CLIMATE IN GOVT, STATION WOULD CONCUR MOST RELUCTANTLY IN (PTN
GELD WILL FWD) WITH FRANK (DIAZ) SILVEIRA DURING CARIBBEAN GAMES WHOM
GOVT WANTED TO THROW OUT FOR HIS STATMENTS TO PRESS ABOUT PROPOSED
ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD REPRESENTATION HERE. IN ANY EVENT STATION WOULD
INSIST NO PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS PRECEDE JAMAICAN GOVT RULING. SHOULD
GOVT REJECT AMBUD FOLLOWING ADVANCE PUBLICITY THIS COULD BE MAJOR
EX VICTORY FOR CUBAN CONSULATE, SHOT IN ARM TO FACING "FRIENDS OF CUBA

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
INCOMING

14-00000

FORM 1833

DISTRI:

ACTION:

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

FILE:

DTO

INITIALS

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

INITIALS
TO
INFO

INCOMING NUMBER
IN 11558

CITE KNGS $248
HUMBEA

---PAGE 2---

COMMITTEE" (COMPRISING LOCAL COMMUNISTS AND RAS TAFARIS), AND GIFT TO
BUDDING NEW COMMUNIST FRONT "SOCIALIST PARTY OF JAMAICA".

3. SINCE STATION COULD NOT PLAUSIBLY DENY RESPONSIBILITY FOR AMBUD
TO RUABBE AND GOVT OPPOSED TO USE OF JAMAICA FOR COUNTER REVOLUTIONARY
PURPOSE AGAINST CUBA, COS BELIEVES IT ADVANTAGEOUS TO KUBARK AND ODYOKE
FOR AMBUD STAY OUT OF JAMAICA UNTIL SENTIMENT CHANGES.

END OF MESSAGE

GROUP 1 - EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
INCOMING
