14-00000

14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/ACCESS/VOLUME: The Coch James W., Jr.

INCLUSIVE DATES: 15 June 1951-17 April 1974

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OP

ROOM: 56 13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED

DATE RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL.

NO DOCUMENTS AY LE COPIED OR RENCED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

SECRET

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO: NOTE FOR THE FILE DATE 7/18/76

ROOM NO. BUILDING

REMARKS:
According to card notation in the files of C/BAS/OP the information referred to on the attached flag was transferred to the Office of the Inspector General and the office of the Director of security on 21 January 1965.

OF FILE

tation is on file with

:s Staff, Office of

Quarters Eye, extension

FROM: Honnert
Koudeshelat, C/FOIFE/OP
ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION

FOR MO PEPLACES FORM 18-8
17053-241 WHICH HAT BE USED.

Hearing transcript and related papers

XX Other EXES ONLY material

THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN ON TOP OF FILE

MCCORD, JAMES W., JR.

S-E-C-R-E-T

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.
7 Tinder Court
Rockville, Maryland 20850

Dear Jim:

31 AUG 1970

70-4562

As you bring to a close more than twenty-five years of service to your country, I want to join your friends and co-workers in wishing you well and hoping that you find the years ahead filled with enjoyment and satisfaction.

It takes the conscientious efforts of many people to do the important work of this Agency. You leave with the knowledge that you have personally contributed notably to our success in carrying out our mission. Your faithful and loyal support has measured up to the high ideals and traditions of the Federal service.

May I express to you my appreciation and extend my best wishes for the years ahead.

Sincerely,
Richard Helma
Director

Distribution:
0 - Addressee
1 - DDCI
1 ER
1 - AC/EAB/OS
1-D/Pers
1-OPF
1 ROB Soft File Concur
1 ROB Reader

Originator:

/b/ IL B. Fisher

A Director of Personnel

27 AUG 1970
AC/EAB/OS

OP/RAD/ROB/MRDammeron:jat/3257 (19 August 1970)

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY

31 August 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Retirement James W. McCord, Jr.

1. The retirement of Subject. effected as a result of a memorandum from the Head of his Career Service stating that he is surplus to the needs of the Service and that his retire- ment will be recommended to the Director under the provisions of the CIA Retirement and Disability System pertaining to in- voluntary retirement, in no way implies an adverse action. Subject signed an application for retirement of his own volition in order to qualify for an immediate retirement annuity. The liberalized criteria for such separations was established by the Agency to parallel similar actions under the Civil Service Retirement System in accordance with FPM Letter No. 831-23, dated 10 December 1909.

2. Any inquiry received concerning the nature of the sep- aration of Subject from the Agency should be confirmed simply as a retirement.

Francis G. Monan
Chief, Retirement Affairs Division

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET
When Bified to
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE POMPAMO
2 July 1970

BLAL NUMBER NAME
MCCORD, James W., Jr.
•FPECTIVE DAGURSTRO
Day
VEAR
08
31
70

• NATURE OF PERSONAL ACTV
Retirement (Involuntary) Under CIA
Retirement and Disability System
FUNDS
• ORGANIZATIONAL STOR
X✓ TO✓✓✓
DDS/Office of Security

DO✓✓✓✓✓✓✓✓ TO CF
PANCIAL ANALYSIS NO
CHARGEABLE
1271-0501
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DD/Physical, Technical & Overseas Security

Physical Security Division

Office of the Chief
11 POSITION TITLE

S-CATEGORY CO EMPLOYMENT
Regular

• LEGAL AUTH

Personnels

PL 88-643 Sec. 235(8)

Physical Seri Ol
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDIAS 113, 1.8. m.)
SS
15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
17 SALARY OR BATE
1810,07

0070
16 GRADE AND SIEP
15/89

28
25236 28987

Subject's last working day will be 31 August 1970. See attached memos.

Retirement is submitted pursuant to a request from the Head of the
Security Career Service.

Incluill on Agency leerserve. List
1152 Alesunds/ba/100/70.
cc/CSB Info
cc/Payrol
18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTIONG OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 188 SIGNATUR 7. 210470

Edward K. O'Malley C/PB/A&TS/OS

19. ACTION 20 (2) SPACE DELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
ALPHABETIC
22. STATION
300)
45/10

RETIREMENT DATA
CODE 2

63624
31. SEPARATION 32 (0421(1108/CANCELLATION DATA
23. INTEGRES 300) 24 MOGTRS 300) 25 DATE OF BISEN 26. DATE OF GRADE
CODE
CODE

531270
1012624

DATA COOF

ΤΥΡΕ BATE SICHED
SICHED
VET PREFERENCE 34 SEX 34 SENURITY 34 SOCIAL SECTY
1011

MATE
37. 100G COMP. DATE B EOD DATA
CAREER CATEGORY FEGLI, HEALTH INSURANCE
CODE
CODE
DATA COOF MOGICL
38 39. 4S
TOCON COMP, DATE ve
CAB/8ESY
PROV/TAP
HEALTH INS. CODE 0-WAITER CGUOCL FCA
41. 42. LEAVE CAT, PREDIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
C4. FEDERAL TAR CATA 4. STATE TAX CATA
CODE PREVION BATA
MO TAS CAPTAS STATE COOF
3.
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
GHOUP I
247
SECRET
"
BSJ14 SEPT 70
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMare
NAME LAST FIRST MIDOSE)
058124 MCCORD JAMES W JR

NATURE JAMESONNEL ACTIONS S CATEGORY OF EMPLOIMINT
RETIREMENT-INVOLUNTARY-UNDER CIA
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-CORR 03:31 70
FUNDS
✓ TO V ✓ TO CF
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
TO CF
CF TO CF
REGULAR

CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHO
1271 0501 000
PL 88-643 SEC 235A
CACIAL SAW

11 POSITION TITLE

PHYSICAL SEC OF
0070
SS
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16. GRADE A
: SALARY OR RATE
1810.07

15 9
28989
Use Previous
Edition

THIS ACTION CORRECTS FORM 1150 EFFECTIVE DATE 08/31/70 AS FOLLOWS:
ITEM 16, GRADE AND STEP WHICH READ 15 8 TO READ 15 9; AND ITEM 17, SALARY OR RATE WHICH READ 28225 TO READ 28989.

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

BSJ: 27 AUG 70

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OEF

SERIAL NUMBE 2 NAME LAST FIT M
058124 MCCORD JAMES WJR
NATURE PERSONNEL ACTION • EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF INMOUMFP?
RETIREMENT-INVOLUNTARY-UNDER CIA 08 31 70 REGULAR
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
FUNDS 7 FINANCAL ANALYSIS No Chorgeusia CSC OF OTHER LEGAL ALUTHORITY
✓ TO V ✓ TO CF
. ORGANIZATIONAL DESTINATIONS
TO CF 1271 0501 0000 PL 88-643 SEC 235A
CF TO OF
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 SEX
PHYSICAL SEC OF 0070 SS
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (Gs. La etc) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY GE BATF
GS 1810.07 15 8 28226

18. REMARKS

L'RE OP OTHER AUTHENTICATION

1150
Use Previous Edition

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

1 September 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.

THROUGH : Deputy Director for Support

THROUGH : Director of Security

SUBJECT : Certificate of Distinction

1. The Honor and Merit Awards Board is pleased to notify you
that the award named above will be conferred on you in recognition of
the excellent service you have rendered this Agency. Security con-
siderations relevant to the award are explained in the attached memo-
randum from the Office of Security.

2. The award will be presented to you at a ceremony to be held
in the near future. Members of your family, Agency associates, and
intimate friends who are aware of your Agency affiliation may attend
the ceremony.

3. Invitations to the ceremony will be extended by the Secretariat,
Honor and Merit Awards Board, Office of Personnel, extension 3645.
Please send to that office the names and phone numbers of the guests
you would like to have invited, and indicate any dates on which you would
not be available for such a ceremony.

/Sgd/ Robert M. Gaynor

ROBERT M. GAYNOR
Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Board

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee
D/S
D/Pers. Reader Chrono/OPF
1 Sec't, HMAB
1- Recorder, HMAB

ADNISTRATIVE - INTERNAL US ONLY

REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD
23 JUL 1404

JAL OR ID NO.
REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD 70 4509
The sonor and Nerit Awards Board having consitere:
MCCORD, James Walter, Jr. 11 August 1970
OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT POSITION TITLE SOMETAL GRADE
OS POSITION GRADE
DDS/OS 1834
GS-15 M

BEAARDED

Certificate of Distinction

FOR HEROIC ACTION ON
Ang 1951 Present
Y FOR MERITORIJUS SERVICE OR ACHIEVEMENT DURING THE PERIOD

PECOMMENDS APPROVAL
DOES NO NO APPROVAL
PECOMMENDS AWARD OF
UNCLASSIFIED CITATION

REMARKS

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., is hereby awarded the Certificate of Distinction in recognition of his exemplary performance of duty for over nineteen years. In a variety of assignments, both domestic and abroad, Mr. McCord has displayed unusual imagination, ingenuity, and effectiveness in accomplishing his assigned tasks. His achievements in the fields of audio-countermeasure techniques and physical and technical security are particularly notevortay and represent a marked contribution to the mission of the Agency. His professionalism in the conduct of his work upholds the best traditions of service and reflecta great credit on him and the Office of Security.
(Recommendation approved by DD/S on 23 July 1970)

APPROVED SIGNATU
/s/ Robert S. Wattles

TOPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, HONOR AND MERIT A

R. E. Cushman, Jr. SIGNATUFE ROBERT 8. WATTLES

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENSE
DA ΓΕ 25 AUG 1970 Signed Original

YPED MAME OF GECCROFE
ROBFPT M. GAYNOR

(4)

Name (Last-First-Middle)

CERTIFICATION OF SEPARATEIG EMPLOYEE
MCCORD JAMES W

MEMOSANCTON FOR THE PECORD ATTACH. TO OFFICIAL FERSONNEL FOLDER

I hereby ackr.owiesse the receipt of the following forms and/or information concerning my separation from CIS as indicated by check mark:

1. Stand: Form 8 (Notice to Federal Employee about Unemployment Compensation).

2. Standard Fem 55 (Notice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees' Group. Life Insurance).

3. Standari Fem 56 (Agency Certification of Insurance Status, Federal Employers' Group Life Insurance Act of 1954).

4. Standari Form 2502 (Application for Rerund of Retirement Deductions).

5. Form 2595 Authorization for Disposition of Faychecks).

CHANG

6. Applicable to returnce (resignee from overseas assignment).
I have been advised of my right to have a medical examination defore my separation from this Agency and of the importance of such a medical check to my health and well-being.
Appointment arranged with Office of Medical Services.
Appointment for Office of Medical Services examination declined.

7. I have been informed of "conflict of interests" policy of the Agency and foresee : problem in this regard concerning a new employment.

8. Form 71 (Application for Leave).

9. CSC Pamphlet al (Re-employment Rights of Federal Employees Performing Armed Forces Duty).

10. Instructions for returning to duty from Extended Leave or Active Military Service.

Signature of Employee
Jamue 77720 3270

Adress (Street, City, State, Zip Code)
7 Winder core Rock Le Marylan

SECRET

Cius 3.
Correspondeneg

✓ cert

Covert

SECRET

ANG 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.

THROUGH : Head of SS Career Service

-SUBJECT : Notification of Approval of
Involuntary Retirement

1. This is to Inform you that the Director of Central latelligence has approved the recommendation of your Career Service that you be Involuntarily retired under the CIA Retirement and Disability System.

2. Your retirement will become effective 31 August 1970. Your annuity will commence as of 1 September 1970 and is payable on 1 October 1970. You may be assured that every effort will be made to expedite delivery of your first check following completion of the administrative details necessary to process your retirement.

3. You will receive a lump-sum payment for your accrued annual leave up to 30 days or for whatever amount of leave credit you carried over from the last leave your if that amount is more than 30 days.

8. Battica
Robert S. Wattlee
Director of Personnel

Distribution:
0- Addressee
D/Pers
1 OPF
1 ROB Soft File
1 ROB Reader

OP/RAD/ROB/MRDameron:dam/3257 (10 Aug 70)

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Official Cover Branch, Central Cover
Staff, DD/P

- THROUGH : Chief, Administration and Training Stall, OS

SUBJECT : Summary of Agency Employment - James W.
McCord, Jr.

REFERENCE : Memorandum to Chief, Administrative Staff/
OS from C/OCB/CCS, dated 14 July 1970,
Subject, James W. McCord, Jr.

Attached hereto is a summary of Agency Employment for
Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., who is retiring 31 August 1970.

O'Connell
James P. O'Connell
Deputy Director of Security (PTOS)

Att.

SECRET

SUMMARY OF AGENCY EMPLOYMENT

JAMES W. MCCORD, JR.

Service with the Central Intelligence Agency began on 22
Angust 1951 and continued through-31 August 1970. During his
career there was a variety of assignments involving investigations,
research and report writing, technical and physical security programs
and a two year tour overseas.

"As an investigator during the first two years of employment,
there was wide involvement in a variety of support activities requiring
initiative and ingenuity.

During the seven years engaged in research and report writing,
there was much independence of action and success depended on
initiative, imagination and resourcefulness in pioneering new areas
of interest. Beginning in May 1957, managerial responsibilities
began with appointment to a Deputy Chief position of a research staff
of some six professional and clerical personnel.

When serving overseas, responsibilities were managerial in
nature as Chief of a regional staff of some ten professional and
clerical personnel providing a full spectruin of security support.

From August 1964 to June 1965 he attended the Air War
College as representative of the Agency.

Since 1965 two vital line positions were held involving the
Agency's programs in the technical and physical security fields.

In heading up the technical security division, from 1965 to
1963, he had primary supervisory responsibility for some 40
professional and clerical personnel, preparing the budget and pro-
grams for the Agency's technical security program, and managing
the obligating of authorized funding to assure that approved programs
and goals were met. He was instrumental in guiding the development
of new approaches, in establishing new training concepts and in
bringing the Agency to a position of recognized leadership in this
fielć.

SECRET

Stenci

Since October 1968, as Chief of a division responsible for
the Agency's physical security program he had primary responsibility
for the supervision of some 70 professional and clerical personnel,
together with the programming, budgeting and implementing of the
total physical security program of the Agency. As a result of his
technological experience, he developed and implemented physical
security programs which produced for the Agency a physical security
posture of pre-eminent quality within the US Government.

SECRET

SECRET 4.38

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERM L NUMBER
(Last-Firry-Middie)

058124 MCCORD, JAMES W., JR.

3 NATURE OF MISONNEL ACTION
DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE
CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

6 PUNDS XV TOV CTO V

D CORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS V TO CF CP TO OF

DDS/SECURITY

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTH DAY YEAR

06 28 70
5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

TOY

COST CENTER NO CHARGE
ABLE LEGAL AUTHORITY Comparted by in Off

0271 0501 PL 88-643 Sect. 203

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASHINGTON, D. C.

11 POSITIOPO TITLE
12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

Physical Sery Of
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. I.B. etc.)
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 10 GRADE AND STEP
17 SALARY OR RATE

15

18. REMAPES

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED
188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DATE SONED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20 EMPLOY 21 22 STATION 21 INTEGREE 24 MOGTRS 25 DATE OF 81 20 DATE OF GRADE
OFFICE CODING
(008
CODE
(300)
300)
(300)
MO DA

MO
DA

TR. TR.

(
84.
14
SEPERATION 32 CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA 34 SECUNITY 38, COCIAL SECURITY NG
DATE COOF

CODE TYPE
34 SBAY COMP. DATE
DA
33 0341600 DATI
MO
DA 37 Long COMPDATE
CAE EGO
CODE 39
440
FÉCLI, HEALTH INSURANCE
HEALTH INS, COOF
41 42 LEAVE CAT, PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA FEDERA 44 STATE TAR DATA
CODE BAPESIONS YOR EXCUTED COOL

COOP
FORM 1152 45 APPROVAL
OSC PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET

(51)

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.
7 Winder Court
Rockville, Maryland 20850

Dear Jimt

70 35271
31 AUG 1570 70-456.2

As you bring to a close more than twenty-five years of service to your country, I-want to joiم your friends and co-workers in wishing you well and hoping that you find the years ahead filled with enjoyment and satisfaction.

It takes the conscientious efforts of many people to do the important work of this Agency. You leave with the knowledge that you have personally contributed notably to our success in carrying out our mission. Your faithful and loyal support haa measured up to the high ideals and traditions of the Foderal service.

May I express to you my appreciation and extend my best wishes for the years ahead.

Sincerelyn

Distribution:

Richard Helma Director

0- Addressee
1- DDCI
1 ER /s/ IL B. Fisher 27 AUG 1570
Originator: Director of Personnel
1 AC/EAB/CS
1-D/Pers
1 CPF 2.10 2300 1970
ROB JoR F 3! Concur:
1 ROB Reader AC/EAB/OS
CP/RAD/ROB/MRDameron:jat/3257 (19 August 1970)

SECRET 81 JUL 19700-4003
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT Recomendation for Involuntary Retirement -
Mr. James B. MeCerd, Jr.
REFERENCE  Memorandurn for Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.
from Director of Security dated 30 Juno
1970, same subject

1. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your approval; this recommendation is contained in paragraph 4.

2. Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., CS-15, Physical Security Officer, Office of Security, Support Services, has been recommended for invol- untary retirement under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-50m. The purpose of this proposed retirement, to which wir. McCord is agree. able, is to assist the Office of Security to reduce its personnel surplus. If such retirement is approved, Mr. McCord requests an effective date of 31 August 1970.

3. Mr. McCord has been designated a participart in the CIA Retirement and Disability System and will meet the technical requirements for invol. untary retirement under the System prior to the effective date requested. He is 46 years old and will complete 25 years of Federal service on 21 August 1970. This service includes over 19 years with the Agency of which 5 years were in qualifying service. The CLA Retirement Board nas recommended that his involuntary retirement be approved.

4. R is recommended that you approve the involuntary retirement of Mr. James W. McCord, Jr. under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-50m.

Robert S. Wattles
Director of Personnel

The recommendation contained in paragraph 4 is approved:

// Richard Helms 8 AUG 1970
Date
Director of Central Intelligence

FED 4

4938

TO:

REQUEST AND AUTHORIZATION FOR ACTIVE DUTY TRAINING/ACTIVE DUTY TOUR

HO COND USAF (PRP) FROM: HO COMD USAF (PRP-A)
BYDIDE OF THE PRESIDE٠٢ BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR F

2. GRADE, LAST NAME, FIRST, MIDDLE INITIAL, AFgn: 453-22-4741 3. PARSC
LT COLONEL MC CORD, JAMES W.JR. 8011

4. PRESENT ADDRESS.: 5. ON FLYING STAtus 6. ALPO RATING

7 Winder Court Rockville, Maryland 20850 Aircraft Observer

8. PURPOSE (Type)
12 DAYS PLUS BEQUIRED TRAVEL TIME
TO ACTIVE DUTY FOR 8.
ANNUAL TOUR, SPECIAL TOUR OF ADA 11. (Indicate apecific school course of special tour tit.:
SCHOOL TOUR SPECIAL TOUR OF ARAS

SIVE ADSIGNMENT 10. UNIT OF ATTACHMEN :
HQ USAF (AFESS-FE) Bathington, DC

INDIVIDUAL BILL BIPORT TO HOUR DAY MONTH VEAP
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR SPECIAL WARFARE (A) NLT
Student Dormitory, Bldg D-3601, Reilly Street and 0800 19 Jan 70
Bastogne Drive, Ft Bragg, North Carolina 28308

12. INDIVIDUAL BILL BE 13 INDIVIDUAL IS IS NOT AUTHORIZED TO PARTICIPATE IN
ASSIGNED FOR ACTARE PATING ACTIVITIES CURING THE PERIOD OF ACTIVE DUTY COVERED
THROUGHOUT PLANED FROM ORGANIZATION ATTACHED DUTY TRAINING ON 30 Jan 70
14. AUTHORITY
AFM 35-3
15 NOVISUAL BILL PROTES FROM PRESENT ADDRESS IN SUFFIENT TIME TO COMPLY WITH REPORTING TIME AND DATE.
14. MULUS OF TRANSPOCATION AUTHORIZED DIRECTED
MILITARY COMMERCIAL
AIRCRAFT AIRCRAFT
17. PCS. 1ON, PAY, ALLGOANCES, AND TRAVEL CHARGEABLE TO COMMERC AIRCRAFT.
PAY. & ALWS: 3703700 500 4261 P 723.01 (P&A) 5594700
14. REMARKS
Pay Group D

TRAVEL & PER DIEM: 5703700 500 6262 P 723.07 40861 409615668100
Security Clearance TOP SECRET
For period of this active duty only, mbr and dependents authorized Commissary
Training Category - D

(Para la, AFR 145-15), Base Exchange (Para 3-8a(1), AFR 147-14) & Base Theater
(Para 3-10, AFR 34-32) privileges.

19. DATE 2. APPROVING OFFICIAL (Typed Name and Grade) 72. SIGNATURE
16 Dec 69
20. P10NE 43.
4579/4279 E. E. THAYER, GS-12 2. Thayer

24. ADDRESS (Street, City, Zip Code) DESIGNATION
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS, HEADQUARTERS COMMAND USAF A 2073 16 Dec 69
BOLLING AIR FORCE BASE, DC 20332 FOR THE COMMANDER

- Individual 28. SIGNATURE ELEMENT OF ORDERS AUTHENTICATIN