1104-10061-10292
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 HSCA)
JLECT

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IF/EIS

FROM : 24 MAR 1978
	Plans and Review Group
	Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations
	(HSCA) Request

REFERENCE : Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director
	of HSCA, dtd 8 Mar 78

1. In response to the request in Reference, CCS files
contain information on five of the 19 individuals listed, as
follows:

	a. Mrs. G. Stanley Brown - Four documents contain
references to Verna Deane Stebbens Brown, born 12 August
1928 in Waynoka, Oklahoma, wife of George Stanley Brown,
born 18 May 1926 in Fargo, Oklahoma, an Agency employee
from 1952 to 1962.

	b. David E. Murphy - Approximately 100 documents
concerning primarily the establishment, maintenance
and use of cover for Subject during his Agency career
as a Staff Employee from April 1948 to July 1975.

	c. Grayson (Grayston) Lynch - Approximately 60
documents concerning the establishment, maintenance ...
and use of cover for Subject during his Agency career
from February 1961 to September 1971. Upon retirement
in 1971, Subject gave Tampa, Florida, as his forwarding
address.

	d. Robert Moore - Approximately 50 documents con -
cerning Robert Butler Moore, born 21 June 1913 in
Hattisburg, Mississippi, an Agency Staff Employee from
June 1953 to December 1971. The documents concern
primarily the establishment, maintenance and use of
cover for Subject during his Agency career. Among other
assignments, Subject served in Miami, Florida, from
1961 to 1971. Upon retirement in 1971, Subject gave as)

WARNING NOTICE
SEIWITVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED

E2 IMPDET
CL BY:026089

# 6308

14-00000

SECRET

his forwarding the following: 3811 Turner Lane,
Chevy Chase, Maryland. In connection with the HSCA's
desire to interview Subject - if he is identical to the
subject of Reference, request CCS files indicate that
Subject retired Covert (DAC) status. The HSCA
should be advised that Subject's Agency affiliation
remains classified information requiring protection.
CCS files also contain approximately 25 documents on a
Robert T. Moore, Jr., born 19 May 1937 in Foodland,
California, who was an Agency Staff Employee from
September 1962 to July 1972.

	e. Bill Logay - Approximately 25 documents con-
cerning William John Logay, born 27 May 1942 in Chicago,
Illinois, an Agency employee from October 1967 to
January 1972. The documents concern primarily the
establishment, maintenance and use of cover for Subject
during his Agency career. Upon resignation in 1972,
Subject left no forwarding address.

2. CCS files contain no information on the remaining
individuals listed in Reference request.

/s/ M. L. Latta

(M. L. Latta)

Distribution:
Orig &1 Addressee
1 - SA/DO/O
1 - 10-4H (HSCA)
1 - RC-5128 (Brown)
1 - RC-10495 (Murphy)
1 - RC-16402 (Lynch)
1 - RC-4271 (Moore)
1 - RC-15719 (Logay)
1 - CCS/PRG chrono via board
1 - OILL chrono
