14-00000
104-10175-10179 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING
SECRET ACTION INFO.
TO
Chief, Wi Division ACTION: MAPTIC FOUR INDEXING
FROM XX INFO.: IMJEXING INCREQUIRED
Chief of Station, Mexico City
INFO.: HEATPARTERS DISBA.
INFO.: CAD J.CE INDEXING
SUBJECT LIHUFF/1 INFO.: ABSTRACT

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REFERENCE: A. HMMW-11321, 13 Feb 1963
B. HMMA-20931, 22 Mar 1963

1. Transmitted under separate cover truename attachments are the
following forms to complete Headquarters’ records on subject:
a. Personal History Statement
b. Personal History Suate...cat (Appendix I)
c. Report of Medical History

2. Subject was originally recruited as a cutout for the LIHUFF/2
organization. However, his actual duties for KUBARK entail far more than
contact and communication with LIHUFF/2. He is an outside agent. In
addition to acting as the contact between the Mexico Station and the LIHUFF/2
Institute, LIHUFF/l is responsible for organizing and directing the KUWOLF
student groups in the LIHUFF/2 project; printing and distributing of propaganda;
planning and initiating student harrassn.ent activities. Since LIHUFF,1’s
duties are those of an outside agent is salary was established to reimburse
him for the amount of tince it is necessary for him to spend on LIHUFF
activities. In this regard, it is felt that the sum of $500. monthly is not an
excessive amount. Headquarters is requested to process a contract for
subject in this amount.
 CA

3. Subject’s social security number is 255-58-5834

Wilcard Curtis
inara C. CURTIS
Enclosures:
as stated above (UNDER SEPARATE COVER) 23
201-2:199
Distribution: DATE TYPED : DATE CISPATCHED
WH, w/encis 29 Apr 63 30 Apr 63

CS COPY DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION HMMA-21166
SECRET HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-209993 23

3/RS

14-00000
6741
SECRET
PART 111

NOTE: DETACH THIS PORTION OF FORM AND DISTRIBUTE SEPARATELY

LL SOCIAL SECURITY NO. 10
255-58-58843 IF SOCIAL SECURITY NO. IS NOT AVAILABLE. HAVE FORM NO. 55-5, 20. CITIZENSHIP
"APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL SECURITY ACCENTS, COMPLETED AS USA
PROVIDED IN DETAILED PROCEDURES.
21. ADDRESS OF RECORD (In U.S.) 22. ADDRESS (Foreign)
FORM Mexico City
none
Nexico City,
SIGNED ORIG. AND COPY
DISTRICTION- TO FINANCE: COPY TO CENTPAL COVER: COPY TO FILE

3138 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET

4-58
slips
14-00000
08
DO NOT USE THIS SPACE THIS DATE (Fillin)
ISSUED BY PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT #

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable, write "NA". Write "Un-
known only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at
end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful
completica of all applicable questions permit review of your qualifi: ations to the best advantage.

SECTION I GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA
1. FULL NAME '(Lest-First-Middle) 2. AGE 3. SEX
Wichtrich, Alfonso Rudolph 47 IX VALE FEMALE
4. HEIGHT 5. WEIGHT 6. COLOR OF EYES 7. COLOR OF HAIR 8. TYPE COMPLEXION 9. TYPE BUILD
6'3" 185 Brown Browa Light Med.
10 SCARS (Type and Location)
None
11. OTHER DISTINGUSHING PHYSICAL FEATURES
None

12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street. City, Zone. State and Country) 113. PERMANENT ADDRESS (Vo., Street, City, Zone, State and
Toluca Highway - Kim 19-1/2 Country) AND PHONE NO.
El Magueyito, Cuajimalpa
Mexico, D. F... Mexico Sames (12)-
Phone 20-77-17 08
14. CURRENT PHONE NO. 15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT. 16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory оf Country)
20-77-47708 35-96-5308 ; Mexico
17. NICKNAMES 18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED
Pancho - Al None
08
19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES inchuding Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.

Pancho - through college - Willcox & Tucson Ariz, Ai- Used to date,
20. IF LEGAL CHANGE. GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by What Authority)
SECTION II 08
POSITION DATA
1. INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOP WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING

2. INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL 13. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT
ACCEPT (You will not be considered for why position with a lower
entrance salary).

JOCCASIONALLY FREQUENTLY 4. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL
'CONSTANTLY OTHER:
5. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check (X) each item applicablej
WASHINGTON D.c. ANYWHERE IN U.s. CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify: )
OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U s

6. INDICATE #MAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA.

FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
٠١٠

14-00000

-2-
09,10
SECTION 111 CITIZENSHIP
1. DATE OF BIRTH 2 PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Counter) 3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)
Oc:. 30, 1915 Chihuahua, China Mexico. U.S.A.
4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY BIRTH 5 CATE NATURAL- 6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.
IZED
MARRIAGE X'OTHER (Specily): derivirive. N.A. N.A

7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE 18.SSUED AT (Csty, State, Countrys
Ν.Α. Ν.Α.
9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY
YES
x NO N.A.
11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY.

Ν.Α.
12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE 13. GIVE PARTICULARS
PRESENT CITIZENSHIP YES
X NO Ν.Α.
14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)

NA
15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.S. 16. PORT OF ENTRY 17. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY
1916 El Paso, Texas Unknown
18. LAST U.S. VISA (No. Type, Place of Issue) 19. DATE VISA ISSUED
N.A N.A

SECTION I۷ EDUCATION
1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED
LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE OVER TRO YEARS OF COLLEGE NO DEGPEE
TRADE. BUSINESS, OR COMVERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE X BACHELCA'S DEGREE
THO VEARS COLLEGE NELESS GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE
MASTER'S DEGREE LOOCTOR'S DEGREE

2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
INAME CELEMENTARY SCHOOL
Willcox Grammar School Willcox, Arizona 10
3. DATES ATTENDED (Fromman 4. GRADUATE

1922-1930
3. HIGH SCHOOL
2. ADDRESS:City, State, Country)

Willcox Union High School 08 Willcox, Arizona 10
3. DATES ATTENDED (From-eng-Hol 4. GRADUATE
1930-1934 XYES
NO
2. ADDRESS City, State, Country)
INAME OF HIGH SCHOOL

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and Taj 4. GRADUATE

NO
4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY
NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY SUBJECT DATES ATTENDED DEGREE DATE FROM
MAJOR MINOR
TO
HOURS
University of Arizona Range Antma! 34 39
Tucson Arizona 08 Ecology Husb.

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3

14-00000

SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2
S. IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM & WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE
OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.
Ν.Α.

NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL 6. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS
Ν.Α. STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION FROM TO MONTHS
Ν.Α.
NA

7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)
NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL STUDY CR SPECIALIZATION FROM ΤΟ MONTHS
Cav. School - Basic Troop Duty 1941 3
Fr. Riley, Kansas
Cav. School - Advanced Horse & Mechanized 1942 3
Fr. Riley. Kansas
Command & G-2-C&GS 1943 3
Sanman Leavenworth, Kan

8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

War Dept. Mis-X - Intelligence
Fort Hunt, Washington, D. C. 1943-6 months

SECTION V FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES
1. LANGUAGE COMPETENCE IN ORDER LISTED HOW ACQUIRED:
(List below each language in R-Read, W.Write, S-Speak
which you possess any degree EQUIV- FLUENT ADEQUATE LIMITED
of competence. Indicate your ALENT BUT FOR FOR WITH
proficiency to Read. Write of TO OBVIOUSLY RESEARCH TRAVEL LEDGE MERCIAL parents, CONTACT ACADEMIC
Speak by placing a chork (3) NATIVE FOREIGN OF NATIVE OF STUDY

Spanish XXX X X X

2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "NOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.

4 years high school
2 years college

3. IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND BRITTEN FORM, EX-
PLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.
Ν.Α.
4. DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIEN-
TIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, MILITARY, AND OTHER SPECIALIZED FIELDS.

Business terminology - write - speak read & translate.
Socio-Economics write speak read & translate.
5. IF YOU HAVE NOTED A PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE, COULD YOU BE FILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION, FOR WHICH
YOU MIGHT BE SELECTED
XYES NO
...
14-00000
SECTION VI
4-
GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL

1. LIST BELOW ANY FOREIGK REGIONS OR COUNTRIES IN WHICH YOU HAVE TRAVELLED OR GAINED KNOWLEDGE AS A RESULT OF
RESIDENCE, STUDY OROK ASSIGNMENT. INDICATE TYPE OF KNOWLEDGE SUCH AS TERRAIN, HARBORS, UTILITIES, RAIL-
ROADS, INDUSTRIES, POLITICAL PARTIES, ETC.
KACELEDGE ACQUIRED BY
NAME OF
TYPE OF DATES OF DATES AND RES:-
REGION OR COUNTRY
SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL PLACE OF STUDY DEACE WORK TRAVEL STUDY ASSIGN
MENT
Industrial Bus. 1919-
Mexico Socio-Economia
Politics Present N.A. X X X X
Business
Panama Terrain - R.R. 1945-1949 N.A. X X X
China Terrain 1943-1945 N.A. X X
Local Conditions.
Terrain
Central Amer. Local Conditions 1946-Present N.A. X X

2 INDICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT, RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL IN EACH OF THE REGIONS OR COUNTRIES LISTED ABOVE.
Mexico - Business - Work Assignment
Panama - Business - Work Assignment
China Army.
3. UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE IF ISSUED.
#118056- Expired August 20, 1962
SECTION VII
1. TYPING (wpm) 2. SHORTHANO(wpm) TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS

x Unknown No GREGG 3. SHORTHAND SYSTEM USED CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE ITEM
SPEEDERITING ISTENOTYPE 1 OTHEP (Specify):
2. INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WHICH YOU HAVE HAD OPERATING EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING (Complacmeter,
Microgaph Card Punch, Ettal.
None

SECTION Vill SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

1. LIST ALL HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARF ACT VE NO HAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY
Major Athletics - Good
Riding Horseback - Good
Horse shoes Good
Gardening - Fair
Bridge - Fair

2. INDICATE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A
PARTICULAR POSITION OR TIPE OF CRK.

3. EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY MAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII, LIST ANY SPECIAL
SKILLS YOU POSSESS RELATING TO OTHER EQUIPMENT AND MACHINES SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORTWAVE RADIO (Indi
cate CT speed, sending and receiving). OFFSET PRESS, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES.

SECTION VIII CONTINUED TO PAGE 5
3/RS

14-00000

SECTION VIII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

4. ARE YOU NOW OR MAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT,
ELECTRICIAN, RADIO OPERATOR, TEACHER, LAWYER, CPA, MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, ETC.
YES XNO

5. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO ABOYE. INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSUING LICENSE (Provide License Registry
Number, if kποκτι).
Ν.Α.

6. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year ca Issue) 7 LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)
Ν.Α. Ν.Α.

6. LIST ANY SIGNIFICANT PUBLISHED MATERIALS OF WHICH YOU ARE THE AUTHOR (Do NOT submit copies unless requested). INDICATE
THE TITLE, PUBLICATION DATE, AND TYPE OF WRITING (Noor Fiction or Scientific articles, General Interest subjects, Novels, Short
Stories, Etc.).

Ν.Α.

9. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.

Ν.Α.

10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC OF
Throughout College and business career.

11. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL, ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OR SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW OR WERE FORMERLY
A MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU HAVE RECEIVED.

Alpha Zeta - Honorary
Bob Cats University of Arizona
Scabbard & Blade 08
08
SECTION IX EMPLOYMENT HISTORY
NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods
including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of
unemployment. List all civilian exzzloyment by a foreign Govemment, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, "De-
scription of Duties consider your experience carefully and provide mearmgful, objective statements.
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By be and Ye.) 2 NAME OF EMOTING FIRM OR AGENCY 27.
1/1/63 Present American Chamber of Commerce 29

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country?
Lucerna 78- Mexico D. F.
4. KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Promote trade & good will Executive Committee r
6. TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (Il Federal Service)

08 Executive Vice President • 9600. ...annum
8. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
Management & direction of Chamber P. R. Defend free enterprise system. 08
Coordinate committee work. / Promote trade develop good will. 08

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
Ν.Α.
SECTION EX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6

14-00000
SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6

1 INCLUSIVE DATES /Frmand To By Mo and it, 2 NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM CR AGENCY
Sept. 1949- Dec. 31, 1962. R.C. Cola Company 29

3 ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country? 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
Columbus, Georgia TH. Stanley) 06.
4 KIND OF BUSINESS
Soft Drink o
7. SALADY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE II Fodorel Service)
TITLE OF JOB

Gen, Mgr, Roval Crown, S. SAJ 08 s 12,000 PER year
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
Direction of manufacturing concentrates. Marketing. Advertising.
Development of sales. Franchising. Mexico and C. America.
Supervision of all franchised borrling plants ants] 08
LEAVING
Transfer to States Preffered Mexico.

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Ma and Yr) 2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
Dec. 1946 Sept. 1949 R. C. Bottling Co. of Panama) 29
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
Panama Ren de Panama 10 5. NAME OF SUPER.OR

Bottling & Sales - Soft drinks] 08 Board of Directors
JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
3. DESCRIPTION OF CUTIES $19.000. PER year
Direction of Company.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING.
Unfavorable climatic conditions.

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yt) 2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Stace, Country:
4. KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

6. TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
$ PER
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo and i'r) 2. NAVE OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City. State, Country)
KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

6. TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
$ PER
SECTION LX CONTINUED TO PAGE 7

14-00000
SECTION IX CONTILED FROM PAGE 6

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
5

IE REASONS FOR LEAVING
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo and Yr.) 2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3. ADDRESS (No. Street City, State, Country)
4. KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

& TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. CRADE (If Federal
Servica)
PER
9. CESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
1. INCLUSIVE DATES/From and To-BrMo and Yr) 12 NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

JADORESS (No. Street. City, State. Country)
4. KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
6. TITLE OF COB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRACE III Federal
Service)
PER
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

IC REASONS FOR LEAVING
8. IF PRIOR SERVICE BITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOTED ABOVE, INDICATE THE
NUMBER OF YEARS CRECITABLE TO APO U.S. CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT. IF KNOΥΗ.
9. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION. YES NO

HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN YES NO
IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS

14-00000
SECTION X
-8- MILITARY SERVICE

1. ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE SPAFT UNDER 1. CURRENT DRAFT STATUS
THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING AND NA YES 2. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIFY 3. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.
SERVICE ACT OF 1948 (An armen de CATIO
NO
4. IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON S. LOCAL DRAFT BOARD 2. OR DESIGNATION AND ADDRESS

2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD
1. CURRENT AND/OR PAST ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIP
MARINE AIR COAST MERCHANT NATIONALAIR NAT'L FOREIGN ORGAN. OR WIL.
CHECK (X) AS ARMY NAVY MARINE MERCHANT NATIONALAIR NATL FOREIGN ORGAN OR WIL.

APPROPRIATE
FORCE GUARD I GUARD MARINE GUARD I GUARD SERVICE (Specify):
MAVE SERVED XX
NOW SERVING
2. BRANCH OR CORPS OF ABOVE CHECKED ORGANIZATION(S)
Cavalry - MIS
3. DATE SEPARATED FROM EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY (Past servicd 4. TOTAL LENGTH OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IN U.S. ARMED
6-46 FORCES (Past and carrent service
6 years
5. DATE ENTERED ACTIVE DUTY PAST SERVICE CURRENT SERVICE 6. TCTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY C
ORGANIZATION
Jan, 1941
1. BANK, GRADE OR PAST SERVICE PATE CURRENT SERVICE 8. SERVICE, SERIAL OF FILE NUMBER fif now serving, provide cz
 Lt. Col 08
rect number)
S. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL PAST SERVICE 0-377220
08
SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE MIS
CURRENT SERVICE
10. SECONDARY MIL. OCCUPATIONAL PAST SERVICE CURRENT SERVICE
SPECIALTY (Moe or Designator) AND C-2 Car.

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY DUTIES (Indicate whether applicable to past or current service) Past,
Troop duty - troop and squadron - horse and mechanizezi cavalry.
Military Intelligence - War Dept. Assigned CBI (MIS-X)

HONORABLE DISCHARGE X 12. CHECK (X) TYPE OF SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE CUTY HONO (AHIPS
RELEASE TO INACTIVE DUTY IX RETIREMENT FOR SERVICE
RETIREMENT FOR AGE RETIREMENT FOR COMBAT DISABILITY
CTHER:
RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY
13. CHECK (X) COMPONENT IN WHICH YOU SERVES ER (Including A) AUS
X REGULAR X RESERVE (Including the National and Air National Guard
3. MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS
2. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE 1 YES 3. ARE YOU NOW & MEMBER OF
1. DO YOU NOW HAVE RESERVE STATUST XYES - HER (Including A) AUS
THE ROTO
X ARMY NAVY X NO NO
MARINE CORPS AIR FORCE NATIONAL GUARO 4. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEMS 1, 2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW AIR NAT'L.GUARD
COAST GUAPO ARMY ROTC NAVY ROSTC AIR FORCE ROTC
5. CURRENT RANK, GRADE OR RATE INDICATE ROTC CATEGORY MUS
NUMBER 6. DATE OF APPOINTMENT IN CURRENT 7. EXPIRATION DATE OF CURGENT RESERVE OBLIGA
RANK 1944 TION
Lt. Col. 08
B. CHECKtxt CURRENT RESERVE CATEGORY
'READY RESERVE STANDBY (ActrX STANDBY pective) RETIRES
9. FRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Desig- 10. SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Moser Des-
nator) AND TITLE Mi Ignator) AND TITLE

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES
Unknown
Ν.Α.
12. ARE YOU CURRENTLY ASSIGNED OR ATTACHED YES 13. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 12. GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY
TO A RESERVE, NAT'L. GUARD OR ROTC TRAIN- NO AND ADDRESS
ING UNIT
X 14. HAVE YOU A MILITARY MOBILIZATION ASSIGN- YES IS. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 14, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY
NO AND ADDRESS
MENTI
16. INDICATE TOTAL MILITARY SERVICE YEARS 17. WHERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPT
MONTHS FOR LONGEVITY PURPOSES INCLUD
ING ACTIVE AND INACTIVE DUTY Unknown Unknown

3/RS
14-00000
SECTION XI FINANCIAL STATUS
YES 1. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEFENDENT ON YOUR SALARY XNO
2. IF YOUR ANSHER IS "NO" TO THE ABOVE, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME
Investments,
3 BANKING INSTITUTIONS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS
NAME OF INSTITUTION ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
Falls Church Bank Falls Church, Virginia
Banco Nacional de Mexico Mexico, D. F.
4. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY.
YES XND
5. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE, GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT AND DATE/S)
6. GIVE THREE CRECIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES
NAVE ADDRESSNo., Street, City, State)
Fails Church Bank Fans Church, Virginia

R.C. Bottling of Baltimore Baltimcre 401 Eas: 30th S. Baltimore Md.
29 10
Popular Dept, Store El Paso, Texas.

7. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT
ACT, PENSION, OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE YES XNO

8. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION, GIVE COMPLETE CETAILS
:

9. DO YOU HAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST IN, OR OFFICIAL CONNECTIONS WITH NON-U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES; OR IN
OF FITH U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES NAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTST YES NO
(Il anewer "YES", fumish details on separace sheet.)

SECTION XII MARITAL STATUS
1. PRESENT STATUS (Single, Marmed, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, or Annulled SPECIFY:
2. STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASO FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS Married

Ν.Α.
WIFE, HUSBAND If you have been married more than once including amulments use a separate sheet for former wife or
OR FIANCE:
husband giving data required below for all previous marriages. If marriage contemplated, fill in appropriate
information for france.
3. NAME (First)
Rachel (Viddle) (Lasden)
Esther Williams Wichtrich 06
4. DATE OF MARRIAGE 5. FEACE OF MARRIAGE (Cary, State. Cocenery)
Dec. 23, 1938 10
Tucson, Arizona - Pima County U.S.A.
5. HIS ICR HERI ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE (No.. Street, City, Stare. CourOTY)
3300 Hawthorne S:., Tucson, Ariz, U.S.A.
7. LIVING
8 CATE OF CEATR
10 CURRENT ADDRESS (Gire lest address, if deceased)

Toluca Highway,
NO 9. CAUSE OF DEATH
Klm, 19 1/2, El Magueyito, Cuajimalpa, Mexico. D.F., Mexico
11. DATE OF BIRTH
2/13/1917 09
12. PLACE OF BIRTH/City State, Counteri
Avoca Texas, U.S.A.
10 13. CITIZENSHIP
U.S.A.
SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10

14-00000
14. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY
N.A.
16. FORMER CITIZENSHIPISI
Countrylles
Ν.Α.
19. OCCUPATION
SECTION ZII CONTINLED FROM PAGE 9
15. PLACE OF ENTRY
N.A
17. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 18. WHERE ACQUIRED (City. State, Country)
ACQUIRED
NA
Ν.Α.
20. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Also give foener employer, or if spouse deceased or
unemployed give Leer two employers)

Housewife
IN.A.
21. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No. Street Cry. State, Country)
Ν.Α.
22. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From and to 3y Mo and Yr)
N.A
23. BRANCH OF SERVICE
NA
4
24. COUNTRY WITH WHICH WILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATED

25. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
Ν.Α.
ΒΝ.Α.
SECTION XIII CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS
1. PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR ALL CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS
NAME RELATIONSHIP DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS
6-28-1948
13-14-40
John Allen Wichtrich 66 Son Tucson, Arizona U.S.A.
Janet Rae Wichtrich 66 Daughter 3-5-1943
06 Daughter 09 U.S.A.
8-5-1943
Ellen Anne 06 Mexico. R.FU.S.A.
William Gus 06 6-8-1950 709
Son
Patricia Jean 06 Daughter Mexico, D. F. 06 09 U.S.A.

2. NUMBER OF CHILDREN Including rep-
children and adopted children) WHO ARE
UNMARRIED. UNDER 21 YRS. OF AGE, 3. NUMBER OF OTHER DEPENDENTS (Including spouse.
AND NOT SELF-SUPPORTING. parente, ster-parents, arater, etc.) WHO DEPEND O
YOU FOR AT LEAST 50% OF THEIR SUPPORT. OR
CHILDREN CHED 21 YRS. OF AGE WHO ARE NOT
SELF-SUPPORTING.
12/50
4
FATHER (Give same information. for Stepfather and or Guardian ca a separate shvcij
SECTION XIV
FULL NAME (Lest-First-Middig) 2. LIVING 3. DATE OF DEATH 4. CAUSE OF DEATH
Wichtrich, Gustaf 06 YES XNO Feb. 1950? Pneumonia

5. CURRENT ADDRESS - Give last address, if deceased (No., Street, City, State, Country)
Willcox, Arizona 6. DATE OF BIRTH 7. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
9. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S.DATE OF ENTRY
1864 12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 13. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
Unknown 11. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) 10. PLACE OF ENTRY 8. CITIZENSHIP
10 584 8. CITIZENSHIP 10. PLACE OF ENTRY (Coty, State,
Tombstone, Cochise Co., Arizona
German 14. OCCUPATION 15. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Game-test employer, it Father is deceased or unemployed)
Owner, Sheetmetal Shop Ν.Α.

16. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR FATHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF-EMPLOYED.
Willcox Arizona (1
17. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To) 18. BRANCH OF SERVICE 19. COUNTRY
Ν.Α. Ν.Α.
20. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
Ν.Α.

14/RS.
14-00000
SECTION XV
MOTHER (Give same andrration for Stepmother on separate sheets
1. FULL NAME (LastFirst-Maddle)
06 2. LIVING 3 CATE OF DEATH 4. CAUSE OF DEATH
Esparza Fermina YES Feb. 1951 Pneumonia
5-CURRENT ADDRESS GIVELLAST ADDRESS, IF DECEASED (No., Street, City, State, Country)
Willcox, Arizona) 10
6. BATE OF BIRTH 7. PLACE OF BIRTH (City. State. Country)
1874 09 10. FLACE OF ENTRY 8. CITIZENSHIP
1874 Chihuahua) Mexico, D. F.
9. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY 12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED U.S.A.
Unknown 10 El Paso, Теха 13. #HERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Cousan
12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED, WHERE
30
11. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (86,10
Elk Hart St
(17.09 6th Ave) Mexican
14. OCCUPΑΤΙΟΥ 15-PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Mother is deceased or unecployed)
Housewife

16. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ALDRESS OR MOTHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF EMPLOYED
Ν.Α.
17. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To) 18. BRANCH OF SERVICE 19. COUNTRY
NA NA
20. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
Ν.Α.
SECTION XVI BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including Half-, Step- and Adopted Brothers and Sisters)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle) 2. RELATIONSHIP 3. CITIZENSHIP (Country) 4AGE

Mrs. Margaret Anderson 06 Sister U.S.
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country) 5. LIVING 54
1037 Olson St., El Paso, Texas 10 TES NO
T. FULL NAME (Last irst-Middle, 2. RELATIONSHIP 3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
Mrs. Charlette Edelman 06 Sister U.S.
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, Ctry, Zone, State, Country) 5. LIVING
N.A. YES XINO
1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Maddies 2. RELATIONSHIP 3