14-00000
104-10217-10196
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

064
M
AUG 64 VE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
16
2
6
TO  • DIRECTOR
Fla-Gibson
FROM: PARIS
ACTION: WE 8
FEL, CAT, CA/PEG, CA/PRIP, FI, UR

ADDED: CI/IC 2, VR

SECRET B21352

DIR CITE PARI 5567 BINGHAM ACTING

LCHARVEST

1. VERGES MAGAZINE REVOLUTION COMBINED ISSUES NO'S 10-11 APPEARED
ON PARIS NEWS STANDS 30 JULY. STA BUYING UP COPIES FOR STUFFER
PSYCH OP. WILL ADVISE.

2. FYI BULLETIN INSIDE FRONT COVER STATES:

FOLLOWING GRAVE ACCUSATIONS CONVEYED BY COMRADES IN NEW YORK,
LONDON AND ACCRA AND CONFIRMED ON INQUIRY, REVOLUTION INFORES
ITS READERS THAT RICHARD GIBSON WHO MISUSED HIS OFFICE AS FORMER
SECRETARY OF "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" IN ORDER PENETRATE
RANKS OF INTERNATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT MUST NO LONGER BE
CONSIDERED COLLABORATOR OF THIS REVIEW. NO EDITION OF REVIEW MAY
BE HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DOINGS.

3. DURING OUR OWN PREVIOUS CONSIDERATION OF APPROACHING GIBSON
RISORIESJEVAY)
FOR VIRK JERVAY ASKED LOCAL ODENVY IF HE WAS THEIR AGENT AND WAS
TOLD NO.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Copy No

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled Inj
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATEN OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONTHS. DATE OF INFO. 8. EVALUATION

DATE PROCESSED
18- CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
18. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

GIBSON, RICHARD
201-306052
SEX M DOB ?
040-006-138/03
NBDA-10084
12 MAR 64
PAZR 1918303
CIT USA
OCC EDITOR
A FRANCE
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
EDITION OF REVOLUTION DISPATCH CONTAINS
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SUBJ AND PADBAYON/1
:
1 918 303
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

19-001
