1104-10075-100992025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

KUUTTU

MRECTOR
JAVAVE
ACTION IV

INFO
DDP, ADDP, 590 6, DODS, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP,
CI/OPS, C/IC 2, FI/OPS/CI/INT 6, SAS 12, 50/1,
WH 8, AD/CL 2, AD/ME/VR.
TEXDSB-3/658,079
SECRET 2623097 NOV 27 0217Z 63 IN 68594

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8188

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMKHAN-2 RECEIVED 251245 LOCAL. REF BARR 1391 (IN ).
PREVIOUS MENTION OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON "NOT PREVIOUSLY SEEN" UFG-3958
A-2 FROM EDUARDO PEREZ REPEAT PEREZ DUANEY (PROTECT). RID NO INDEX.

FILED 2623097. REPORT CLASS: SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: SIGHTING OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNONS IN THE AREA OF HABANA.

101: 23 NOV 63. PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 NOV 63) UFG 4138

SOURCE: AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES
IN HABANA. SOURCE HAS REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY
PERSONEL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN
ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF AN AGRICULTURAL
ENTERPRISE IN HABANA.

IT COMMENTS RELEASING DISTRIBUTION
1S DEMAL CONTROLLED DESM.

10957

DATE DISTRIBUTED
27 NOV 1963
TDCS
PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
PRIORITY
BASED ON UFG-4130
LIAISON RETURN TO CA

Background Use Only

/m

---
14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISS

NO FOREIGN DISSER/CONTROLLED DISSEN

COUNTRY CUBA REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/658,079
SUBJECT TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON IN THE AREA OF DATE DISTR 27 NOVEMBER 1963
HABANA
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF 23 NOVEMBER 1963 REFERENCES IN 68594
INFO.

PLACE & UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 NOVEMBER 1963)
DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES IN HAVANA, SOURCE HAS
REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY PERSONAL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S
RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF
AN AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISE IN HABANA.

1. ON 23 NOVEMBER 1963, ABOUT 200 TANKS WERE OBSERVED, APPARENTLY
PARTICIPATING IN MANEUVERS, IN AN AREA AT THE INTERSECTION OF VIA
MONUMENTAL AND CARRETERA CENTRAL. MANY OF THE TANKS HAD TWIN CANNON
MOUNTED AND WERE A TYPE PREVIOUSLY NOT OBSERVED BY THE EYEWITNESS.
(FIELD COMMENT: A CUBAN WHO HAS PROFESSIONAL CONTACT WITH RELATIVES
OF OFFICIALS IN CUBAN GOVERNMENT CIRCLES AND A VARIETY OF CONTACTS
IN WESTERN CUBA, REPORTED THAT ON 23 OCTOBER THE ORENBURG BROUGHT
A NUMBER OF ARMORED VEHICLES WHICH WERE CALLED LANZA LLAMAS
(FLAME THROWERS) AND WERE A TYPE NOT PREVIOUSLY OBSERVED IN CUBA.
THESE TANKS CARRIED TWO CANNON WHICH APPEARED SIMILAR TO THE 152 MM

SECRET CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC NRO TREASURY
NO FOREIGN DISSER/CONTROLLED DISSEN

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---
14-00000.

SECRET троса DB-3/658,079 68504

ARTILLERY PIECE.)
2. AS OF THAT SAME DATE THERE WAS A LARGE MILITARY CAMP TO
THE WEST OF VIA MONUMENTAL JUST BEFORE REACHING THE CARRETERA
CENTRAL. (FIELD COMMENT: THIS IS PROBABLY THE LOMA DE TIERRA
MILITARY AREA WHICH HAS RECENTLY SEEN A LARGE INFLUX OF VEHICLES
AND MATERIEL).
3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVREYWEST
