104-10185-10024 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
(When Filled In
NAME CHECK, DOCUMENT SERVICE, AND PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO. (Filled in by RID)
DATE PS
20

FROM: (Requester name)
BRANCH
EXTERI0月
7 McHale 03 A
ROOM
3661

TO ROOM DATE INITIALS CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS
ESC

RID/INDEX
REQUESTER
1.45-4-424
Ple call
RID/FILES

REQUESTER
When Alaly
RID/DRS g & -attached

RID/201

RID/ANALYSIS

RID/MIS

RID/INDEX

SURNAME SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

e GIVEN MAMES
BESTA Lamberto

SPELLING VARIATIONS

AKA, ALIASES OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership,
1. S. altaliatione, etc.)

Owns Export-Import firm LABE (or LABEX)
in Milan

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH 5May 1918

CITIZENSHIP RESIDENCE
Itelich 23 Via Teodosto, Milen, Itely

RID/INDEX TO REQUESTER COMMENTS

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

BE SURE ALL SUBJECT INFORMATION IS CORRECT

1 Type or print all entries.
② On receipt of index card reproductions: draw a green diagonal line across items you
don't want RID to obtain for you.
CHECK CHECKER Kit C C C C C C C C C C green) the Copyflo listing to reflect: (a) Cards to be destroyed (green D).
Examples: referenced document has been destroyed; less informative than a retained
card leading to the same information; referenced information not significant. (৮)
Corrections and additions, including oo when card reflects all facts in document.
(c) OK all cards that are correct as typed.

Could this trace be consolidated into an existing or new 201 file? yes no. (If
yes, complete the following no other form required.)

201 201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION
UBR
(201 number will be supplied by RID. 11 . 201 number has been obtained by
desk, nore at in this space.)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

CRYPTONYM FILE TO RESTRICTION (!! any)
ASSIGNED BE KEPT

YES NO RIO ACCESS RESTRICTED
DESK YES NO

ALWAYS RETURN THIS FORM WITH COPYFLO OF CARD REPRODUCTIONS. IF YOU HAVE REQUESTED
A 201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION, ALSO RETURN PERTENENT DOCUMENTS.

BESTA, FNU 041-000-900
DOB ?. OIR -13764
CIT? Cid.
TS 107273
4 Jun 54
ALLEGED ITALIAN AGENT IN MILAN SER. 7889

Cant locate
in Rt

Ordenil
to locate
in Ri
ively

BESTA, Lamberto 43-5-1-4334
CI4-374
4 Apr 55
Att.

BESTA, Lamberto NTA 136
(2525)
24 Mar 54

BESTA. Lamerto (MAA)

Files are attached with pertinent items clipped....

Lamberto BESTA

Apr11 1955 8 Resident of Milan et Via Teodosio 23, collaborated foo
DEMIGOD
brief period with kemijud regarding clandestine
traffic in strategic materials. Lives by trafficking in cigarettes and
other things not excluding done. Also meintains contact with
29
head of French intelligence in Italy in political field. Person of
doubtful honesty, braggart and capable of carrying out any kindof
activity for money. (Source Demjod)

15-22
March 1954: Itel service (Min of Int) offered to turn over to Milan station
full control of PIC operation in which BESTA was involved. Has werned
he has been
"heads off" because of BESTA's extremely bad reputation
implicated in all sorts of contraband traffic as well as reputation
of completely nomimm unanchored intelligence operator.

Νον 1953:.
11
He was an attempted double agent operation b. by Ital service into
Yugo I.S.
:
!

Hous NCT ục
jit read State Compulchre
Refered to in teen dat check

4IBR
