104-10183-10043 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
201-267956
ORIG: STEPHEN I. MUNGE AVE
UNIT: DC/WE/4/x-
INIT:
DATE: 3 JUNE-1963
INDEX
SECRET
12-42
ROUTING
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
2
3
4 JUN 63 13 26Z
INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SIGNATURE
TO: ROME
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WE 6
INFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, CCS 2, FI, SAS 8, S/C
SIG CEN
DEFERRED
X ROUTINE

TO: ROME INFO CITE DIR: 44488
KEYWAY PERUMEN AMWHIP

1. AMWHIP/1 (IDEN A), LONG TIME KUBARK ASSET FOR PERUMEN OPS, WILL
VISIT ROME 5 TO 15 JUNE TO OPEN JEWELRY STORE IN IDEN B. HAS OFFERED HE OF
SERVICE TO STA IN ANY WAY POSSIBLE INCLUDING FURNISHING COVER IN NEW STORE.
THOUGH LEFT PERUMEN EARLY 1961, REMAINS PERSONA GRATA TO REGIME SINCE GAVE
AID TO CURRENT REGIME DURING PRE-REVOLUTION DAYS AND TOOK NO OVERT OPPOSITION
STAND. IS CONSIDERED BY CURRENT REGIME AS A POLITICAL BUSINESSMAN AND CAN
ENTER OFFICIAL INSTALLATIONS MEET WITH PERUMEN DIPLOMATS. FOR EXAMPLE, PLANS
FOND PERUMEN PASSPORT AT EMPASSY, PARIS, ON CURRENT TRIP.

2. IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IDEN C WILL OPEN JEWELRY STORE ROME. SAYS IDEN
C FULLY TRUSTWORTHY ANTI-REGIME AND COULD BE MADE WITTING OF ARRANGEMENTS
MADE ROME IF SO DESIRED. IDEN C WAS WITTING SOURCE OF PEPRIME ODUNIT ATTACHE
I: FBRUMEN PRIOR 1961. 201-267956

3. AMWHIP/1 IS PARTNER IN NEW YORK OF IDEN D WHICH IS CLOSE TO INITIAL
IES OF MILAN. COULD ALSO OFFER COVER IN IDEN E FUT BELIEVES 479 LESS
CECUS SINCE HD HAS MORE DIRECT CONTROL OVER ROME JEWELRY STORE. RIDIS

CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
RELEASEINE C
RID 6 JUN 1963
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROH DITED.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ORIG:
UNIT: INDEX
EXT: NO INDEX
DATE: FILE IN CS FILE NO.
TO
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:
INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SIGNATURE
PAGE TWO
ROUTING
DEFERRED
X ROUTINE

TO: INFO CITE DIR: 44133
4. RECOMMEND STA ESTABLISH CONTACT BOONEST DISCUSS VARIOUS OFS PROBLEMS
POSSIBILITIES, INCL COVER FOR PERUMEN OPS SUPPORT ASGET AS PLAINED. IF COVER
FOR SUBJ DIR 38810 STILL UNRESOLVED, STA SHOULD RAISE PROBLEM WITH AMWHIP/1,
REALIZING THOUGH THAT LATTER MAY BE RELUCTANT OFFER COVER IN OWN FIRM ΤΟ ΡΕΡΒΟΝ
WHO BROKE CLAMOROUBLY WITH REGIME. STA MAY ALSO WISH ABK AMWHIP/1 VISIT OF-
FICIAL PERUMEN INSTALLATIONS ROME FOR MEETINGS ASSESSMENTS TARGET PERSONALITIES.
ETA SHOULD FEEL FREE DISCUSS ALL OTHER PERUMEN PROBLEMS DESIRED. IN ALL ABOVE,
STA MUST ABIDE BY AMWEIP/1 JUDGEMENT. NOTE LATTER IS NOT PRINCIPAL AGENT TYPE
CI ROCRUITER. HAS BEEN HIGHLY VALUABLE AS WITTING INFORMANT, SPOTTER, OPS
SUPPORT TYPE.

5. AMEIP/1 WILL ETAY WITH IDEN F. CAN BE REACHED THERE OR PREFERABLY
THROUGE IDEН В МАНАGЕMENT. IN MILAN CAN BE REACHED THROUGH IDEN E. OFFICER
MAKING CONTACT SHOULD IDENTIFY SELF AS FRIEND OF FILL THOMPSON AND REFER TO
THOMPSON'S TALK WITE AMIIP/1 OF 31 MAY IN NEW YORK. SHOULD URE ZOLISH IX
INITIAL PHOSE CONTACT. AM-HIP/1'S ENGLISH AND ITALIAN ARE FAIR BUT RECOMMEND
SUTSTANTIVE DISCUESIONS BE HELD IN AMWHIP NATIVE LANGUAGE.

END OF MESSAGE
SAS/208 Hr.(Kamright) (in draft)
ES CO
RELEASING OFFICE COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROM DITED.
Copy No.
