14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO FILE

RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES &
DISPOSITION SECTION, RMS ON OR BEFORE
DATE INDICATED. A-50

IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 9278.

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM
FORM 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

ONAY
12 Mar 1973
S.Corbat
06/EFK

DO NOT REMOVE ANY PAPERS OR
MUTILATE FOLDER.

78-1129
9432393

Opera
FILE NO WARCIA AD 37
DOCUMENT:
FOLDER:
11
PAGE:
BOX:
2

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
14-00000

December 1952
RETURN TO RECORDS CENTER
P
RETURN TO RECORDS CENTER
IMMEDIATELY AFTER DSE

==Start of OCR for page 2==

14-00000
✓ SECRET
Security Information

31 December 1952
MEMORANDUM FOR: Doputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT:	Background Material for Dr. Tyson's visit on Wednesday,
		Jamiary 7th.

1. I would like the attached papers to call to your attention
the very good work that Dr. Tyson has done which is generally not known
here. His successful use of emigros in making a calm and factual pre-
sentation to the Acerican public of conditions behind the Iron Curtain
is, in my opinion, the basis on which the Crusade for Freedom can be run
by the Heritage Foundation in the future.

2. Dr. Tyson shares our doubts about the Free University in
Exile. He agrees that the two principles upon which the University was
founded

A. that there were sufficient qualified Iron Curtain
escapees to justify institutionalizing their education; and

B. that by creating such an institution for escapees an
esprit de corps is created, together with a determination
on the part of the escapoes to serve their homelands at
some future date
'have not been proved.

3. All of the evidence to prove the validity of these principles
is certainly not in. The evidence at hand raises serious doubts, and is
as follow

A. Of the current 208 students of the Free University, 37
are Yugoslave, ami 12 were born in Western European countries.
(The high total ratio - almost 25% of the student body - of
Yugoslav students, which is not a target country, together with
the non-satellito born students indicates an inability to recruit
the kinds of students the University was intended to train.) It
should also be noted that from the information available to us it
is not possible to determine what proportion of those listed as
born in target countries actually left them before Soviet domina-
tion. I have the impression, which is substantiated by the recruit
ing missions of Mr. Royal Tyler throughout Europe and even Turkey,
that suitable candidates are already extremely difficult to find.
It should be noted also that of the 64 outside scholarships given
to exiles in various European Universities, 16 are for Yugoslavs.

SEC
Securdy

==Start of OCR for page 3==

14-00000
SECRET
Security Information

-2-

B. We have had various raports which indicate that the
morale of a mumber of students at Strasbourg is not good. These
morale problema arise from a variety of reasons, among which are:

(1) They are not entirely certain why they are there
and just what the American sponsors intend for the
(2) They fear that after they finish their education
they will be without jobs,

(3) There has been a steady and systematic campaign
carried on by French Communist students at the University
of Strasbourg to demoralize and disorganize the FEUE student
body. In addition, several students are suspected of being
espionage agents.

4. Dr. Tyson is leaving for Europe on the 21st of January to make
a thorough investigation and evaluation of the Free University in order to
answer these questions. We are alding him by having the officials of the
President's Escapes Program make available a complete inventory of escapees
who might be potential candidates for the University.

5. Dr. Tyson was not the instigator of the proposals for a gymnasia
for the Free University. The proposals were made and pushed by Royal Tyler
and Spencer Phenix. The handling of this matter as far as Tyler was concerned
was another example of his difficulties in dealing with Phenix for, as finan
cial officer of NCFE, and having no position in the separate corporation,
that 13, the Free University, Phenix has and is dealing with matters of
policy.

THOMAS W. ERADEN,
Chief,
International Organizations Division

Attachments: a/s
IO/TONIC: WFD/cmm
Distribution:
CIO
Orig Addressee
1 cc
1ce IO/TONIC
1 cc RI
SECRET
Security to fקז

==Start of OCR for page 4==

14-00000
SECURITY INFORMATION
31 December 1953

MEMORAL DUM FOR:	DEFUTY DIRECTOR (FLINS)
VIA:	Chief, Political and i sychological Harare
SUBJECT:	NCFE Cooperation with. CIA

The cooperation of NCFE in certain matters should be brought
to your attention.

1. In aiding the Amoney to take advantage of theSlansky
trials, NCFE: (a) has made available complete monitoring of
the trial; (b) is translating into Hungarian, Felis, humanian,
Bulgarian, and albmian, transcripts of the:rial; ani, (c) is
sending us complete extracts of the Iron Curtain press dealing
with the trial. all of this has been, or is being done with
great speed, NCFE is making a major project out the
Slansky trials and will distribute a pamphlet on the subject
in the satellite languaes to its extensive overseas mailing
lists.

2. NCFE is relasing to the press and carrying on its
broadcast the substance of incoming cable 21500 aated 1 December
fron Vienna, on Vienna reace Conference.

3. Inadition, SUFF has done some specific research for
us with skill and great speed.

10/TONIC: WFD/hka
Distributions:
Orig. & 1- Addressee
THCS BRADEN
Chief
International rganizations Division
1ee em
2 cc 10/TO:IC
1 cc CO
1 cc RI

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

==Start of OCR for page 5==

14-00000
........
S

Chief, Cover Division, Plans/FI
Chief, Contact Division, m
Crusade for Freedom
8.1450
19 December 1952
HII-591

The attached extract from the 12 December 1952 issue of
!
Fifth Army's Domestic Intelligence Report is forwarded as being
of possible interest to your office.

Enel: 1
E. 4. ASHCRAFT

==Start of OCR for page 6==

14-00000
Botre`,
Hotro
SECITY ויי

"An S. CHEN approached the Head of t
A-Dame versity Security Section, and rested
a list of all Chinese nationals attending the
University. Chen represented himself as a member
of the STUDENTS RELATIONS SECTION, COMMITTEE FOR A
FREE ASIA, INC., 105 Narket Street, San Francisco,
California. CHEN stated that his reason for
requesting such a list was that his organization
was active in promoting better relations between
Chinese nationals attending colleges and universities
in the United States and the American people.
Dame received for a second time a pamphlet from the
COMMITTEE FOR A FREE ASIA entitled, "Asia in the
World Today'. Officials at Notre Dame have also
been contacted by the NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR A FREE
EUROPE, 110 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York.
This organization requested a list of all foreign
instructors and students presently instructing or
attending courses at the University. A businesa
card attached to a pamphlet revealed the following
information: Miss Ellen M. STUDELI, 1223 East 57th
Street, Chicago 37, Illinois, Chinese Student and
Alumni. Service, Chicago Area, COMMITTEE ON FRIENDLY
RELATIONS AMORO PORRION STUDENTS, 29 Broadway,
Dew York 7, New York. There is no information in
0-2 files this Headquarters relative to STUDELY or
CHEN."

==Start of OCR for page 7==

14-00000
FEDURATION
SECRET

16 Lecember 1952
SUBJECT:

MEMORANDUM FOR: DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)
Edward W. Barrett and NCFE
Your Note Lated 11 December 1952
REFERENCE

I'm informed by Admiral Killer that the matter of Edward W. Barrett
Joining NCFE as a director, was discussed at an Executive Committee meet-
ing a month ago.

No formal decision was nede because of considerable opposition 60
the matter has been tabled.

SECRET

THOMAS W. BRADEN
Chief
International Organisations Avision

==Start of OCR for page 8==

14-00000

C
0
Y
15 December 1952

Dear Archie:

I much enjoyed our chance for a talk, and Bill Durkee,
who assists me in the subject we discussed, is tremendously
enthusiastic, as I am, about the possibility that you will
consider favorably the appointment Frank mentioned.

Let me state again what seems to me most important in
the facts under discussion. The job is of national and
world-wide importance. It can help achieve greatness. It
can endanger us all. It requires a man of imagination and
ideas but also a man of deep and thoughtful responsibility
to discharge it well.

I should like you to consider that I am at your service
at any time to give you any facts you would like to have ar
any opinions for that matter. All of us here consider that
we would be greatly privileged to be able to help you if you
undertook the job.

