14-00000
104-10169-10001

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•FRP:
.......

STAFF
1921
DISSEM PER SOP #111

CONF: LA-5
CRST
INFO: FILE, VR, IP/DMS, ODPD-D, (8/P)

78 0374944
PAGE 001
: SECRET
TOT: 021727Z MAR 78 DIRECTOR 180640

STAFF 0217272 DIRECTOR 180640
: TO: GUAYAQUIL INFO LA FIAMI, QUITO.
164216-12
16-14

UNINTEL REAM TRACE
-1614

REFERENCE: A. GUAYAQUIL 22049
116-14
B. GUAYAQUIL 17852 (DATED 01 AUG 73)
1. FOLLOWING ARE HOS TRACES ON EVELIO DUQUE MIYAR
(201-0302008):

A, IN 56 DUQUE STARTED HIS FIGHT AGAINST BATISTA IN THE.
ESCAMBRAY AND OBTAINED THE RANK OF CAPTAIN. IN JUN 59 HE FORMED AN
ORGANIZATION UNDER THE NAME OF CUBAN ANTI-COMMUNIST YOUTH" IN ORDER
TO COMBAT THE CASTRO REGIME. IN AUG 60 HE OPENLY RAISED ARMS AGAINST
CASTRO IN THE ESCAMBRAY MOUNTAINS.

B. DUQUE AND FOUR OTHERS ARRIVED MIAMI AREA BY BOAT ON 5
JUN 61. A POA WAS GRANTED DUQUE ON AUG 61 AND HE WAS CONTACTED AND
DEBRIEFED. HE WAS PUT IN TOUCH WITH JMNAVE. DUQUE ASKED FOR OUR
assistance to obtain arms and re-group his guerrilla fighters in
Cuba, it was agreed to assist Duque and group. He received no
salary and the only commitment made was to train and infiltrate
Duques group if they follow our direction and control. on May 62 his
POA was cancelled because Duque refused to permit team to enter Cuba,
since then we have had no further contact with Duque.

C. IN JULY 63 DUQUE NOW LEADER OF THE EJERCITO CUBANO
ANTICOMMUNISTA, FRENTE ESCAMBRAY (ECA) AND HIS ECA GROUP PLANNED TO
TAKE THE KEYS ON NORTHERN COAST OF LAS VILLAS PROVINCE, THE TRUE
PURPOSE OF THE MISSION, HOWEVER, WAS TO EMBARRASS THE USA AND FORCE
IT INTO DIRECT ACTION AGAINST CUBA, ALSO WANTED TO SEEK RECOGNITION
FROM DAS AND UN WITH THE HOPE OF PUTTING THE USA IN THE MIDDLE.

D. IN 66 THE FBI REPORTS THAT DUQUE AND HIS ECA GROUP
HAVE NOT BEEN ACTIVE BECAUSE OF A LACK OF FUNDS,

E. FROM 1966 UNTIL 1973 WE HAVE NO INFORMATION REGARDING
HIS ACTIVIITES.

124 IN 73 (REFERENCE B) YOUR STATION REPORTED THAT A
BINSITIVE UNILATERAL PENETRATION OF THE
LOCAL DRUG MILIEU REPORTED THAT
RECORDLCOEY

2 mea78
201-302008

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

5/80

14-00000
SECRET
STAFF

78 0374944
:
PAGE 002
TOT: 021727Z MAR 78 DIRECTOR 180640

: GUAYAQUIL DRUG TRAFFICKER ALFREDO ORDONEZ GONZALEZ TRAVELLED
TO SAN JOSE AND MET WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS,
•••
EVELIO DUQUE BORN CA 33, CUBA SERVED IN CUBAN REBEL ARMY.
LEFT CUBA IN 60 AND OWNS HACIENDA NEAR
SAN JOSE, TRACES AT THAT TIME AND
PRESENT REVIEW OF 201 FILE FAIL TO CONTAIN ANY INFORMATION CONNECTING
• DUQUE WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING.
ة
2.. HOS INTERESTED IN LEARNING YOUR INTEREST IN DUQUE.
PLEASE ADVISE.

3. FILE: 201-302008. E2, IMPDET.>
03
LA/COMMENT: REF REQUESTED TRACES ON SUBJECT.
ORIG: LA/CO/WH (BARR X1491); COORD: C/LA/CO/WH (MANELL)
); AUTH: LA/VCE/E (TURBEVILLE); REL: C/LA/VCE
LA/CARI (
(BEARDSLEY); CL BY 012034,

END OF MESSAGE
C
AP MAR 3078
SECRET
:
edisakur