1104-10072-10001 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET:22

FROM: (San Jose,) Costa Rica REPORT NO. (HR1)906

REPORT MADE BY: Stefan R. Lebanos/s1 NO. PAGES: 2

REPORT APPROVED BY: Stefan R. Lebanow NO. ENCLOSURES: 80s below

DATE OF REPORT: 1 February 1956 REFERENCES:

DISTRIBUTION: 16-21-(Guatamala, u/att.
By copy to: 2 - Washington, u/att. 16-31-(Mexico,u/att.
2-files 16-261-(Elm Salvador, u/att.
16-231-(Santiago, u/o att.
Orally to: Embassy 16-71-Panama, w/o att.

SOURCE CRYPTONYM: (HUSSY) ID NO.
IG NO.
KRYPTON: YES NO
SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS
16-2 16-3 16-26
Attachments: 1 copy each of attachment to (Guatamala)(Mexico) and (San Salvador.)
2 copies to Washington.

INDEX

SECRET

PAPY

14-00000

SECRET

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
COUNTRY: 22

SUBJECT: Guatemalan Exile Activities (CA) 906
(JANUARY 1956

(1 FEBRUARY 1956

PLACE ACQUIRED: Costa Rican, (San Jose) (1 FEBRUARY 1956

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT
High level Central American exile (F). Appraisal of Content: Documentary

On 14 January 1956(Col, Carlos PAZ Tejada, under the alias
Col, Francisco COSENZA Galvez in Costa Rica from San Salvador wrote to
addressed to the accommodation address "Just MARCIA Tartado 2692)
which is used by COSENZA, and istranslated as followe
,"

"Although I have wanted very much to answer your letter of 7 December 191 many things have/obstructed it and so time has slipped by against
my wish, so that I have been able to write you only today.

"In spite of the latest news which you must be familian:
happened is nothing but an incident, natural to the trade. I really believe
that the crazy one with whom we were dealing was trying to negotiate and
participate in the winnings which there would be without much risk on his part.
If the business failed for one reason or another, it does not signify anything
more than a loss of time and some short-range hopes, but not in an important
manner.3 Far from that. Something positive is being accomplished within a
general line of forcing Maria Dolores to act in a manner which is good for
I hope to continue in the activity and I have exactly the patience of a spider
repairing its net 'n wait for a fly to fall into it.

"With relation to what you transcribed from Dona Ticha, that is due to the fact
that the fat one who was formerly so close to me, has patted from me and has
dedicated himself to the task of defaming me because he was unable to get
something he wanted from me. Since he has nothing else to say, he says that
I have very strange relations or that I belong to the courades. If you will
understand, this is nothing more than a disloyal means, in which he is an
expert. The friend? who recently arrived from El Salvador/can increase your
information concerning this. I have already written to the good friend of
'mi morona '9/so that he may explain if there is an opportunity. Although she is
already really suffering a strongedition in her actibil and I do not think she
will recuperat. chan pt.

"I have strengthened the connections with Roqueilo and other friends of the

SECRET

FORM NO. 51-58 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED. 200-4-173 212

FUGE CAHD REPRODUCTIONS

14-00000

SECRET

CHRB-906

'finca ni morena'. I think that, depending on how things appear, we should
cctivate our requests and also gontemplate now solutions to the large problem.
I an writing today to the forw to maintain a continuity of action and to
see if the prevailing circumstances can be taken advantage of and given a
purpose.

"I consider it extremely important that we maintain ourselves in closer
correspondence than up to now. I understand that it is I who have failed to
answer you, but I hope that the explanation of the events an sufficient.
Failing to do co would be to fail to show interest and would even result in
everything becoming cold and paralysed for who knows how long.

"The big carlrots me very affectionately. I think that the problems that
they cause each other are completely negative and that they cause us to deviate
from the only road which should be followed."

SOURCE COMMENTS: WIEDERHEITMANN
1. (col. Ernesto WIEDERHEITMANN

2. A reference to the planned revolt which was discovered and destroyed by
the Guatemalan Government in December 1955.

3. A code name for Guatemalan President Carlos CASTILLO Armas.

4. Augusto CHARNAUD MadDonald.

5. (Major) Marco Antonio FRANCO Chacon. According to Humberto GONZALEZ Juares,
there was a disagreement between FRANCO and PAZ Tejada, which resulted in
FRANCO accusing CHARNAUD of PAZ' dealings with
tellen.4

6. The Communists. WIEDERHEITMANN

7. Humberto GONZALEZ Juares.

8. El Salvador.

9. Mexico.

10. (Col) Adolfo GARCIA Montenegro.

11. Guatemala.

12. Juan Jose AREVALO.

SECRET 200-4-173212

THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

14-00000

Sn. Salvador 19

Cumque ha sido mucho mis deses disigiels
para dar respuesta a la tuya del 7 de dice ppdo, rec
tha ido dyicmilands y poco a poco parando
hace que ontia in voluntad, hasta hoy fores
Risispo, es que
dinginle estas liness.

A pesar de las ultimas noticias que habis abo
cres que lo incedido no pass de ser un incidesalt
Lasral en el oficis. En realidad yo cress que el boco con quien
tatomos, estate tratando de regreias y participar en las greca
parte. Asi lo calling
gore hubieran sin muchas arribant de tou
ba desde el pomepro y por ins
comporrised
posible de.
deco.

ho perte

Coats plazo pero

spor b, razones
Guess esperanzis a
dental. Jejos de
Lincamiento gensial
di iso

manoo enforma
perdi pertida ma, que de
en forma alguna algo, trao
ve esta estoniendo dentes
maria Dolores actuat en
informa
esperanzes de contimsar en la as
la paciencia de la araña, ne
La mosesta caiga prouts can
all que que
bon relación a a traverises de doña Bicha,
dine que it eso se tite que el goodits aquel que antes cattates,
Juato a me, por no ottener de thi algo se diss furioss of
dedicats a la noble Karen de difamarine, especialmente, ga Jun
no puede decir olen cosa, que tengo muy cutradas relaciones of
limeses a la comasas. Como tu comprendes, calo no so
cuperts Et c
medis blesteat, aunque el en estes es.
hase poos llegó de por el Judiste, la podel
200-4-123 212

14-00000

Elvira rachas

Elvira Pachur
Sr. don
Justo Garcia

Apartads Houta: 2692,

Sou José, VIA AIR MAIL

Costa Rica, Glo

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

14-00000

Eres que
lione e incluso contempora
Coolbeg
Hoy
Pacar la contimidad de accion
ver las civemalamen

IS BEST OOTAINABLI
FROM APERTURE DA
