104-10147-10301 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
SECRET.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
STAFF
ACTION UNIT
BY AT
1 4
RF. FILE. VR. diploms, L/CA3 DAOY 2 5
CLAAS ( )ISES, YEURG, ISIATIC ISIAJEL 3 6
ACTION #
ISTA, day des/EZ Salado
T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 01 (OCC) IN 459495
TOR:291001Z NOV 77
HAGU 33077

SECRET 090945Z NOV 77 STAFF DTC HSCA
CITE THE HAGUE 33277 Mo is putting together a blind memo
TO: DIRECTOR, R
WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MHCOLOR
REF: UNHA-40412, 4 MAY 1977
on this to pass to
1. SENSITIVE SYMPATHIZER SOURCE INDICATES THAT ON
3 OCTOBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT MEET WITH
CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE HAGUE. OLTMANS STATED HE GOING "TO
AMERICA ON 18TH" AND THAT HE "IS INDEED PREPARED TO GO
AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD
VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR
3 OCTOBER AND WANTED COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY.
OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO
SCHEUDLE MEET WITH HIM DURING SEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD
BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED.
OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN.

3. ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE
CONTACT WITH CUBAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT
TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET 22225

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
SECRET.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHI!
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
STAFF
ACTION UNIT
BY AT
1 4
RF. FILE. VR. 2 5
ACTION # 3 6

T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 02-02 IN 459495
TOR:091001Z NOV 77 (HAGU) 33077

IS OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME
OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF
INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGNECE
AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE. IF HQS DEEMS
IT APPROPRIATE, NO STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE,
WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL
AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE: 201-155221, E2, IMPDET.

cls SUGGESTS ADDL DISSEM TO DTC

SECRET
