14-00000
104-10171-10003
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
SECRET

Chief, Task Force W

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
RE: Operational "GYROSE/KUDESK/KUWOLF7PÅ
G-2 Penetration Action Against AMSPELL Organization and "Other Groups"
in PBRUMEN
Action Required: FYI

References:
A. WAVE-3286, 14 January 1963
B. UFGA-7027, 28 December 1962 (RYBAT)
C. UNGA-7038, 20 December 1962
D. UFGA-7247, 12 January 1963 (RYBAT)
E. UFGA-7322, 17 January 1963
F. MEXI-2829, 13 December 1962

MICROFILMED
FEB 4 1963
DOC. MICRO. SER.

01
01

1. On 4 January 1963 AMHINT-27 met with QUANTUM-51 in New
York City, and QUANTUM-50 advised him that Jorge MEDINA Bringuier,
the Secretary General of AMSPELL in PBRUMEN, is a G-2 agent.
MEDINA and AEDO (fn), who was said by QUANTUM-50 to be on the
ANSPELL National Executive; were actually G-2 penetrations. They
planned to "roll up" the entire AMSPELL organization and "other
groups" in one sweep and then escape by boat and contact AMRINT-53
in the JMWAVE area. MEDINA was in contact with AMBINT-53 while in
PORUMEN and planned to use AMHINT-53 to establish his bona fides
with KUBARK.

DIAN

2. QUANTUM-51 further advised that another mission of the
two G-2 agents, MEDINA and AEDO, was to make contact with Iden A
to determine what role it played in anti-CASTRO activities. The
secretary of QUANTUM-50 had been a very close personal friend of
AEDO'ssi since childhood and AEDO feared she would be implicated, so
so he told her of his espionago mission. She informed QUANTUM-51
and then arranged a meeting between QUANTUM-51 and AEDO. ALDO told
QUANTUM-51 of his mission and arrangements were then mado to get all
the AMSPELL leaders into asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy. On or
about 10 December 1962 about 25 persons, including AEDO, went into
asylum.

3. QUANTUM-51 further said that AEDO reportedly was arrested
by G-2 a long time ago and then recruited to work for the PBRUMEN
Government.

continued

Distribution:
C/TFW watts

22 Jan 1963

Attachments:
A. IDEX 011-5-1
B. Misc. material

SECRET

UFGA-7383

19-5-1-8 &
4201-301693

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASS
SECRET
1:FGA-7383

4. Reference C is a chronological summary of AMBINT-33's
activities subsequent to his infiltration in PBKUMEN, and his
contacts with Chelin, the brother of ANFRET-7. AMFRET-7's arrest
was reported in Reference B. The AMFRET-7 Case Officer states
that both AMFRET-7 and his brother were arrested, after shooting
it out with G-2 and being wounded. As noted in Reference D,
AMFRET-7's arrest was made after QUANTUM-55 and Blanca MARTINEZ
de Hoya, aka "Cuca," aka "Cuchi, brought MEDINA, AMSPELL's National
Military Coordinator for Reception and Supply, to Iden A where
MEDINA recognized AMHINT-33. AMHINT-33 said MEDINA was an old
friend of his and had lived near him.

5. AMHINT-33 said further that his brother knows MEDINA, that
MEDINA is the man whom AMHINT-33 used in 1961 to check up on REBELLON
(Inu), the FEU Secretary General in PBRUMEN. AMHINT-33 added in
his S/W Message 11 of 10 December 1962 that "his friends" are still
in jail.

6. Reference E transmitted a letter written by AMHINT-33
on 29 December 1962 in which he states that G-2 infiltration is so
great that he considers it impossible to organize anything, and he
indicates that some of the agents, as in this case, have been infil-
trated for more than two years. He presumably means infiltrated
into anti-CASTRO organizations and/or activities.

7. Relative to the "other groups" mentioned in para. 1
above, AMHINT-33's Case Officer believes that AMHINT-33 is probably
referring to the MRR, the MRP, the MDC and the 30th of November.
Groups. The "friends" mentioned in Para. 5 may be one Eduardo
BRINGAS, who is about 23 years of age, one GOUMI (nu), and others
previously referred to but not identified by AMHINT-33; they may
have worked for AMHINT-33.

8. JMWAVE traces on the individuals involved in this plot
offer little concrete information.

a. It is noted that Jorge MEDINA Bringuier is listed
on Page 13 of Attachment C to UFGA-4977 as an MRR member, with a
listed aka of Carlos PRADO. JMWAVE tracing identifies one Carlos
PRADO as "a brother of Raul, the head of G-2 in Las Villas Province,"
as reported in HAVA-6437, 5 October 1960; there is no further informa
tion on this Carlos PRADO. However, the original source of the inform
ation given in Attachment C of UFGA-1977 was a letter brought out
of PBRUMEN by AMSTRUT-1 about early July 1962. Said letter contained
a $25 money order, issued at Station No. 9, New Orleans, on
16 March 1962, for Jorge MEDINA Bringuier and purchased by Maria
Teresa MEDINA. The envelope, addressed to Sra. Consuelo. C. de
RIVAS in Mexico City, bore the notation, "For Carlos PRADO," and
contained a note, "This money order for $25 is for Carlos PRADO
from his mother," in addition to the money order. There is one
Carlos PRADO in Mexico. He is studying engineering and is the
brother of Faustino PRADO Garcia, an engineer who works close to
"Che" GUEVARA and is of current KUTUBE interest. Faustino PRADO
is married to Clara ARTIME, A sister of Josefina ARTIME, who is
a close friend of AMGLEN-9, and she is also of current KUTUBE interest.
When AMSTRUT-2, who could have given this letter to AMSTRUT-1 to
take out of PBRUMEN, was in Mexico City she called Carlos PRADO by
telephone at 249769 and told him that she was a friend of his mother.
This PRADO family is a large one, and includes another brother,
Angel, who is in Spain, a sister who is a nun in Italy, and another
brother who is a doctor in New York City. Additional data could
be secured on this family from AMSTRUT-2 if desired. However, it
seems probable that this money order may have been sold in Cuba
by Jorge MEDINA and purchased, sooner or later, by the mother of the
Carlos PRADO who is currently a student in Mexico. A copy of the
material carried out by AMSTRUT-1 is being forwarded herewith. It
will be noted that a part of the attachment was disseminated as
UFG-1239, 13 July 1962.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET

ZR
14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMGA AND NUM
UFGA-7383

b. It is further noted that JMWAVE files show one
"Mongo" listed on Page 14 of Attachment C to UEGA-4977 as captured
and sentenced to 30 years in prison. This information came from
UFG-779, 12 January 1962, which was based on an ANCUTLER-1 intercept
of a report from the MRR Acting Internal Coordinator in PBRUMEN
to Hipolito LAZARO, the MRR Internal Coordinator temporarily in
PBPRIME, sent via the Argentine Diplomatic Pouch. There was no
further identification of this "Mongo." 24

c. It is noted that Reference F identifies Jorge
HAEDO as a former anti-Castrista who was tortured and doubled by
the PBRUMEN Government; HAEDO appears to be the correct spelling.

d. "Cuca" or "Cuchi" MARTINEZ, who has held the position
of AMSPELL National Coordinator for Civil Resistance, is a personal
friend of AMCOG-3 and family. She is believed to have taken asylum
in the Mexican Embassy. SW Message 12 from AMCOG-3, dated
8 December 1962 and received 12 December, reported that QUANTUM-51] 01
advised "Cuca" to hide or be cautious because MEDINA had turned out
to bo a G-2 member. The message said that this was learned from
AMSPELL prisoners and that, during interrogation, they were asked
many questions about "Cuca" and AMOOG-2.

9. When the AMHINT-53 security review mentioned in Reference A
is received, additional investigation as necessary will be made at
JMWAVE.

END OF DISPATCH

USE PREVIOUS EDITION
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PAGE
COS NUED

14-00000

SECRET
IP
MICROFILMED
FEB 4 1963
DOC. MICRO. SER.

Cader Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-7383, 22 January 1963

IDEN A
Spanish Embassy in PBRUMEN.

te uF ETH 7383

28 JONG3
19-124-26/3

14-00000

Attachment & UREA-7383
Fils
NOT SUTIVE FU2Ju
ENVELOPE
13. Corsuolocad
Xicotencalt #84
Coyoacan
Xo:doo, D.r.
(for Carlos PRADO)

This money order for $25.00 is for Carlos PRADO from his mother.

Le copy of money order for $25.00 for Jorge Haru Dringulor tron Harta Teresa

NOT SUITABLE FOR CROFILM
・(LefかったのじREA-7383.

MRR
Q8JANCS
19-124-262

14-00000

SECRET

Kiss Yarlo Antonia LOP
2) sv 11th Avo.
Kia:1, Na.

First page cissing
I ca going to place the communication abroad in Sofi's handa; no ona battor.
hat I nood is that you explain to us botter how to make the contact from here over
this, that is, how and where to ace SARARIA, the contact which you said you had with
Soft Inova ala but doesn't know whoro she can see him. Roncabor that Soft is
clready being checked because Esteban's vifo knows her and asked about her. I en going
to try to have the treasurer be a friend of Sofi's who knows whore the money is. 15
a fully trustworthy boy called Alejandro.

711 Dr. LALAGS that I don't write to him about the affair because it is castor
forms to write to you, but that he and this boy should havo rolations, and I with
Call and vith, you.

Le cive the support to LAZAGA together with the Excoutiw, because it would bo
xible to only one porson, and for the case it was lost in our hands. You soo that
the accutivo over there is fully answerable to us and that way thoro vill be no
problems.

We don't know anything about my nomosake. So far all the contacts have falled.
Let's so what vo can clarify.

Toll Towns that the nows I sont hin about Dos Mos was through a contact which
I male with our brother-in-lav D. He is willing to work and has people in his area,
and also in the coast. I bollova that a lot can be done up thors. Dosides, Sto
Lift to a terrific contact also at that coast, han vo have to put in contact with D

Tell Tanas to let no work also in that area, which is mine and of my people, and that
18 ho gives authorization that vo can send a guerrilla band to work with the
Cf course, this guerrilla chosen by us to avoid thoir sending pooplo of them
cad have then take comand away from us. You know how that is.

its to our other brother-in-law in the cabassy and find out when he loves
because I know that he is already leaving but to cons back to me immediately. Let's
2 18 he leaves, takes a fast training, and conos back. Have thon got much rap
recting and nea to nan combat with bayonots which is very good at night and no one
now anything about that.

You t explain the thing a bit to boto so that he will gain onthusiasm. If 5
css that the thing is serious and has real support he will come. The only thing that
1
ha noods support for his family. Explain everything to hin and I think ho
will caza. Eo Icaves tonorrow and I gave hin your phone. If he noods money for his

14-00000

vifo and for himself give it to him from aino. I authorized dia to ask you for it.

If they would lot as, in our provinco I would placo dor 5 guerrilles vita
the contacts which I had before and have now, and we would fill that up for these
people, that is, we would start a var in all the provinco, plains and overything.

Well, this lotter is going with safe hands to Kiant where it will bo nailed,
tomorrow. Co the S.W. which I sont vill arrive lator if I can't got it taken with
this ons because I already gave it to have it mailed. Let's see if vo can got it back
in tias to have it arrivo soon.

I will write to Boba and Northa Elona another day with calm, and I don't have
the details of your lotters on hande

Regarda to all and you receive love from your brothor,

Kamolo

14-00000

SECRET

MINUTES

In the City of Havana, on 30 June 1962, the neaders of the NATICIAL Exέουτενς
of the OZENTO DE RECUPERACION VOZICIONARIA" (N.R.R.), Roberto CASAS, Civilian
National Coordinator, and Jose Antonio AGUCIONS, Military National Coordinator, tod
a resting and adopted the following agromontss

That in view of the present situation of our povezent and the general
situction of the country, we have decided to change the organization of the covent,
vel 1111 τον be composed as follows: (A) Cho Civilian National Coordinator, and
(C) Cas 111tary National Coordinator. All previous Secretariats and denominations
are armled..

سة
To give full autonomy, with regard to functioning, to the Civilian and
Military Coordinations. Thus, each vill function separately.

To give full support and recognition as GENERAL DELDOATE in exile of
our covezat, to Dr. Jose Ignacio LAZAJA and to the executivo appointed by his vith
the cuthorization of the provious National Coordination.
مة المتة result of the SECOND agromont regarding autonomy in the functioning
of the National Coordinations, wo egros to accopt the Misrarchy in the command of tho
full Excutive of our Novonent in oxile, with the provision that the orders originating
from this Exocutivo will be complied with in accordance with our capabilities and
taking into consideration that as we are in the National Territory we have battor
knowledge of the real situation which ve aro undergoing.

:
doned by dooborto CASAS and Jose Antonio AQUASONTE exclusively, as the rost
of the cabers of the provious NATIONAL COORDINATION are in prison with the oxception
of
ex Coordinator of Civic Resistance who is in asylum.

//roberto CASAS
✓CTWAY NATIONAL COORDINATOR
Jol Jose Antonio AGRAVONTE
NILITARY NATIONAL COORDINATO.

SECRET

14-00000

Ara Cosiciels C. de Rivai
Xicsteucalt84
Coyoacou
Mikico. D. F
CORREO AEREO VIA AIR MAIL

Ente Money Order for
$2500 ali in porn.
Coils Prodes de frontie
biecy cromá

United States Portal Money Order 11-47,272,045
MAXIMUN VALUE ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
PAY

DOLLARS
AND CENTS

NOT VALID
FOR MORE THA
DOLLARS
ORMATION MON
PAY
FRO

CO.C.

PLEASE CASH PROMPT - VOID IF ALTERED
DO NOT FOLD, STAPLE SPINGLE OR MUTILATE

14-00000

Urta. Juaria Antonia Leójney
8.27 5.10. 11 Th Ave.
Ariami, Pla

CORREO AEREO - VIA AIR MAIL

14-00000
Q
en
micación al exterior de wij a
nifer que ells. to qui
te the decias timer de sam bios
fui yo yo graceite
Parabia
como hacerlo de aqui para alla, & die be
molo a el. Pofi lo cource, fiero no sabe dovés
Limitlire que a Sifi ya la están chequrando fouis Dr
in Chiban la conoce y preguntó pregunto forella. for El tissers way
on Theater que sia une amigo de Sifi fiue sabe donde este
Tida confianza Mandi
muchacho de Tida

Diske al Dr. Bajaga que me le escrito sobre el partiar
es
far-pirgin a ti
más fácil, pero que este
chic
chy i'l son los que deben buer relaciones, y nhu con
Ellille y contigo

El apoyo si lo damos a Bagaga funto con el Ejian
Etos porque a ima sola persona seria imposible & ftate
el cass
de difaba en musestras manos. Ilds. prraren jur
I ajecutivo an eva reefonda plenamente a noso
no habrá problemas.

Dzui
tocayo no sabemos nada, todos los contactor
i bian fallads basta ahora. Vaniis a ver que ficamos
Listi a Tomás que la noticia de Dos Miez que diemuan
?
,
تام
su se
the hi fie for a se contacto sui hice con mit
S., cete está dispuesto a trabajer y tiene gente
a was de por la costa cer que por arriba
pri hasir mucho, aduvad leito que con
The formidable por aquella costa tam bim, il cust
filio fit in eputacto con Dile
me pueda trabajer tainbien para esa youa, que

14-00000

Desde luego era
que si el dá autorización
Ciri
que yo Hì
qui yo
den
csu 212
lin soma, la de muni gente y que si el
afridi vendar sua querilla a trabajar com
Desde luego era
The way a ser que aus gute ameri
el dá autorización
Den
a sus
en y yo quisela lo de los
y quisela 1011 gurete ameri
if it quite la fifatura, tu sabes como 21 2
Givilele a mestro otro cuñado en la embajaday
vivigiia a ver orando sale purt yo se za que el vá
to fara solver conmigo enseguida. a ver si sale yor
en training rapido y vuelve. Clue cojan munchie
lictura de mapes y lucha enerpo a everfio con
The Juue eso es mir esa buena de noche y aqui nadie. 14
the
da de ess
muислий
a bisto le tiences que explicar la cosa un poco jese
die cisa ecbulls, siel sigel vé que es tevia la cora y
erdadero respaldo el viene, to unico que igual que
Payo recesita ajuda familiar, aclárale todo
que el viève. Mañana sale I of le le dé de tie tie teléfono,
Le Mass falta dinero para la señora y para els dans
all mis, yo lo autorize a pedirtelo.
Eto of

Si me desager en muisera prow. yo metia & o 5 qui
penis aquillo a esta quite, o sea le matianich guis
ad con los contactos
28 quieria aquillos.
de con to in la
o las de lele
que yo teria antes y ahora, yile
o
contactos yo tema
toda la provincia, Mano y todo.
la
Gaino, estada en wants
seguras hästa
S.ll quran
ucia, Mans of ousta ricain cloake-
seguras hästa
seguras hästa
seguras hästa
seguras hästa
seguras hästa
que me tenia ante,
2 соттер майаna asi que el S. que en
2 соттер майаna asi que el S. que en
a llegro que lo lleven funts
tinta on
legro que lo lleven funts
o le dijé por que lo echaran al correre
de tiempo para que llegue pronto
remyera a
warta Elena lis contisto potro dia con calma
The bestsee the ju
