2
104-10193-10069 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
14-00000

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: Burke, William P. Jr

01775
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1947-1962

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CS Files

ROOM 5E 13

DELETIONS, IF ANY: NONE

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
22 DEC 78 2:20
27
2:45 Chuck fot Chuide Bak
DANDARDOWAY 
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
TERMINATED
BURKE WILLIAM P O

14-00000

STANDARD FORM'S6 AGENCY CERTIFICATION OINSURANCE STATUS
Issued November 1959 Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act of 1954
U.S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION (Last) (First) (Middle)
1. FULL NAME OF EMPLOYEE
William P., Jr. October 22, 1900

Burke

3. CHECK THE REASON FOR TERMINATING INSURANCE
SEPARATED. RETIRED DIED OTHER (Specify)

WAS FMPLOYEE. ΑT TIME OF
DEATH, AN APPLICAN FOR (d). 12
STATUS
CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT? MONTHS
NOV.PAY

YES NO.
CHECK APPROPRIATE BOA CONCERNING S. P. 34, DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY

CURRENT A CURRENT S. F 34 15
A CURRENT S-F 34 IS ON FILE IN
S. F. 34 ATTACHED NOTTON FILE WITH THIS
AGENCY THE EMPLOYEE'S OFFICIAL PERSONNEL-
FOLDER OR EQUIVALENT

NOTE: IF EMPLOYEE (A) DIED OR (B) IS RETIRING OR RECEIVING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION UNDER CONDITIONS ENTITLING HIM TO RETAIN
FREE LIFE INSURANCE, ATTACH CURRENT S F. 54, IF ANY, TO ORIGINAL 5 F. 56 AND CHECK BOY ON ORIGINAL AND ALL COPIES OF SF.
50. IF NO CURRENT 5 F. 54 IS ON FILE, CHECK BOX 4 (b). IN ALL OTHER CASES, SHOW WHLTHER OR NOT CURRENT S. F. '54 'IS ON FILE BY
CHECKING BOX'4 (6) OR (c). A CURRENT S. F. 54 IS ONE THAT HAS NOT BEEN CANCELED BY EMPLOYEE-OR AUTOMATICALLY BY PRANSIER OR
PRIOR TERMINATION OF INSURANCE.

S. DATE OF EVENT CHECKED IN ITEM 3 6. ANNUAL COMPENSATION RATE (CONVERT DAILY, 7. CATE OF NOTICE OF CONVERSION
PRIVILEGE (SF 35) TO EMPLOYEE
MONTH, DAY, YEAR, HOURLY, PIECEWORK, ETC. RATE 10 ANNUAL
RATE; ON DATE IN ITEM 5. (MONTH, DAY, YEAR)

October 27, 1962 17.925.00. PER ANNUM

CEFY THAT THE ABOVE INFORMATION HAS BEEN OBTAINED FROM AND COPRECTLY REFLECTS OMNICIAL SECORDS, AND THAT THE EMPLOYEE
NAMED WAS COVERED BY FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE ON THE DATE SHOWN IN ITEM 5. (SIGN ORIGINAL ONLY)

(Personal signature of authorized agency official) 17 DEC 1962

B. DeFelice Insurance Officer - Alternate
(Type name of authorized agency official) (e)

Central Intelligence Agency 2430 E St., N. W.. Washington 25, D. C,
(Norne of egency) (Mariniress of agency)

SEE OTHER SIDE

FOR

INSTRUCTIONS TO EMPLOYING AGENCY

PART 3 FILE COPY

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled fal

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
OEF

: 31 CC 62
SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME. (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

001775 BURKE WILLIAM P JR

NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4 EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
0
10272
REGULAR
RETIREMENT (OPTIONAL)

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE B. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

4. FUNDS το ν CF TO OF X
VTO CF
3242 222 4000

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDI OC

: CONTACT DIVISION, NEW ORLEANS, LA.
U.S. FIELD

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

10 CONTACT 0195 OC

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE

GS 0132.21 15 8 17925

REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. 21.
OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Mdętrs 25. DATE OF BIRIN 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
CODE Empisy Coda CODE NUMERIC ALPHABETIC Code Code MO YA DA DA DA, DA. 写真
30 RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION: CANCELLATION DATA
28. NTE EXPIRES 29 SPECIAL TYPE
REFERENCE DBH0000 MO 写真 VR.

1 CSC 2. PICA 3. NONE 33 SECURITY 34. SEX
35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
8-10 PT CODE
COCK

CAR RESV PROV TEMP 41. 42. LEAVE CAT 43. FEDRAL TAX DATA
PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA CODE CODE 44. STATE TAX DΑΤΑ

ONO PREVIOUS SERVICE FEDLI/HEALTH INSURANCE CODE 1. WAIVER HEALTH INS CODE NO TAX STATE CODE
1. No peEAK IN SERVICE ExEMP
2-BREAK IN SERVICE ILESS THAN 3 YRS) YES FORM EXECUTED CODE
2.NO
BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS) 3 FORM EXECUTED SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
2.NO

FORM 1150 Use Previous GROUP
SECRET

(4-51) (When Filled In)
Lataded from automats Edition
Que Topa decrassificatio

14-00000

OEF

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2 NAME LAST-FIRST MIDDLE)

00775 BURKE WILLIAM P JR

NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4 EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
3:

FUNDS τό ν CF TO OF
4. REGULAR

CF TO V
7. COST CENTER NO CHARGEABLE 8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

3242 222

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
IC CONTACT

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY DR RATE

GS 0132.21 150 17920
REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
Form 1150 Use Previous
Edition

(4-51)
L

14-00000

22 OCT 1962
Restry Executive Re
Mr. Willian: P. Darke
6300 Saint Charles Arenas
New Orleans 13, Louis
Dear Mr. Barka:

As you bring to a close eighteen years of service to your
country. I want to join your tricada and co-workera in wishing
you well and hoping to you find the years ahead filled with
sajoyment and satisfactiza.

It takes the camicientious alforts of many people to do the
Important work of this Agency. You leave with the knowledge
that you have personally contributed much to our success in
carrying out our missias. Your faithful and loyal support has
measured up to the high deals and traditions of the Federal
service.

May I express to you my appreciation and extend warmost
wishes in the years assad.

Siacaraly,

Signed) JOHN A. MOCONE

Joun A. McCore
Director

Distribution: /s/fHarry W. Little, Jr.
- Addressee

1 DCI 1 Di Pers Originatora
- DDCI 1.C/BSD Director of Persoanel
22.0CT 1962
ER POPS
-DC/EAB SO BCB Retirement
BCB Readery Concur:

OP/BSD/RSaga:emt (18 Üctober 1962)

SIENE
DC/EAB/SO
19 OCT 1952

14-00000

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRO, ISIONS CE PUBLIC LA 37793 AND
DCI NEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 1:56. SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS

EFFECTIVE 14 CCTOBER 1962
CLD NEW
NAME SERIAL ORGN FUNDS GRIST SALARY
GRIST SALARY

BURKE WILLIAM P JR 001775 82500 V 150 $15810 15 8 317925

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD FILE
CATE
2 October 1962

The Honor and Merit Awards Board having considered a recommendation that:

NAME: (Lasti Firstl Middlel POSITION TITLE
Chief, New Orleans Field Office
BURKE, William Patrick, Jr.

PRESENT GRADE OFFICE ASSIGNED TO STATION
GS-15 DDIVOO New Orleans

BE AWARDED:
Intelligence Medal of Merit

FOR HEROIC ACTION, ON

FOR MERITORIOUS ACHIEVEMENT OR SERVICE DURING THE PERIO0

APPROVES THE RECOMMENDATION DISAPPROVES THE RECOMMENDATION

APPROVES, BUT IN LIEU THEREOF, RECOMMENDS THE AWARD OF:
CITATION
Mr. Willlam P. Burke, Jr., is hereby awarded the Intelli-
gence Medal of Merit for his outstanding service to the Central
Intelligence Agency. As Chief of the New Orleans Field Office
since its inception in 1947, Mr. Burke labored unceasingly in
developing programs which have produced important information
on a continuing basis. In his role as Agency representative, he
has been successful in establishing relationships which have
furthered the mission of the Agency and enhanced its reputation
in the area. In his role as office chief, he has provided leader-
ship of the highest order to his associates, and leaves behind him
a legacy of achievement in keeping with the best traditions of
service to the United States.

(Recommendation approved by DD/I on 14 September 1962)

REASONS FOR DISAPPROVAL OF RECOMMENDED AWARD
APPROVED

gned) Marshall S. Carter /s/ Harry W. Little, Jr.
SIGNATURE
TYPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD
HARRY W. LITTLE, JR.

007 1882

Baputy SIGNATURE
DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
/Sgd/ Robert H. Gainer

FORM 382 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. TYPED NAME OF RECORDER
DATE
ROBERT M. GAYNOR
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY (4)

14-00000

: SERIAL NUMBER SECRET DATE PREPARED
(Bhen Filled (n) 14 September 1962
1775
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

2. NAME (Last-First-Middle) 4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
BURKE, Willisa P., Jr. 0

NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE REGULAR
X ντο CF ABLE 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
FUNDS 3242-2221-4000 Office of Personnel)
CF TO V
CF TO CF
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATION'S 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDI/00
Contact Division New Orleans, La.
U.S. Field
New Orleans Office 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
11. POSITION TITLE IC Contact OC

Inteliigence Officer, Cher *К 0195

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 1、OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
GS 0132.21 15-8 115,810 17925
18. REMARK
ee Payroii; Security
Subject is re-employable.

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING
S.M. ASACRAFT 158. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED
Chief, Contact Division, 00 J.
Acting Assistant Director, 00 30 Oct 1962
NUMERIC ALPHABETIC
4518 28.NTE EXPRES
SERVICE 29 SPECIAL 30 RETIREMENT 31 SEPARATION 32.CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
CODE 34.SEX
REFERENCE DATA CODE
35. ET NEFERENCE S6 SER COMO CATE 3PLOD EOD DATA 40. SOCIAL SECURITY MO
