104-10193-10077 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: HICKS, CALVIN
 OP FILE
INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
AULS
8/28/81 HARDWAY/ PONZE Harwa
ORR

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

LH: FET 25

EF

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBER NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

HICKS CALVIN W

NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION EFFECTIVE DATE CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
DER CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY 12 REGULAR
SYSTEM AND CANCELLATION OF NSCA 2774

FUNDS CF TO V V TO CF FAN AND NSCA 7 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
11

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 18 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER
WATCH OFFICER 1125
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
DAA
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18, etc.) 18 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 18 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE
GS 1307 13 97697

REMARKS:

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

M-873 Use Previous
Edition

SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last First Middle)
056361 HICKS, Calvin W.
DATE PREPARED
24 January 1975
4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Retirement (Disability) MONTH DAY TEAR Regular
Under CIA Retirement & Disability
System & Cancellation of NSCA 12 27 74
6 FUNDS OVTON O TO OF 7PAN AND NSCA
C TO V CF CF O TO OF 8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
Public Law 88-643,
5222-4116 0000
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
.000/Operations Staff 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
Intelligence Group
Wash., D. C.
Intelligence Watch Branch
11. POSITION TITLE
12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
Watch Officer (14) B325 DAA
0947
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE 36S. 18. etc.) 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0132.07 13
17 SALARY OR RATE
LWD: 27 December 1974
- CNG/MID
Payroll
OPS/SP
Co-ordinated with Paul Seidel/ROB
30 January 1975.

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED
S. & Hardi TOPS/SP 24/01/25 24/1/25
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
OFFICE CODING
NUMERIC
ALPHABETIC
22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. NO
CODE
CODE
25. DATE OF BIRTH
HR 26. DATE OF GRADE
YR.
29 SPECIAL
REFERENCE.
18B SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DATE SIGNED
27. DATE OF 1
30. RETIREMENT DATA
30 11682411682
31 SEPARATION 32 CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
CATA CODE TYPE
33 SECURITY
AEG MO
34 SEX
EOD DATA

37 LONG COMP DATE
30.000.0
A 5, comp, DATE, 35.1851, PREFERENCE
10648476
CAR/RESV
PROVTEMP
THE
CAREER CATEGORY
CODE 39 FLI
210
40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
464
FEDENAL TAX DATA
44
FORM EXECUTED 128
CODE
STATE TAR DATA
CODE NO FAR STATE CONS
451
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GERENT SERVICES
CODE
*NO. PREVICUS SERV
M
45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
022575
872
USE MENOUS EDITION
SECRET
CLASSIFIED BY 01-0332
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chairman, Board of Medical Examiners
SUBJECT : Request for Medical Evaluation
 Mr. Calvin W. Hicks

1. Subject, a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability
System, has applied for disability retirement under the provisions of
Section 231 of Public Law 88-643, Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees. It is requested that
a medical examination be arranged for Subject and that a written
report of the Board of Medical Examiners as prescribed in paragraph
f. (4) of HR 20-50 be submitted to the Director of Personnel.

2. Attached are copies of the Supervisor's Statement, the
Application for Disability Retirement, and a private physician's
statement.

3. Subject intends to remain on duty until a decision is made
regarding his application for disability retirement.

R. L. Austin, Jr.
Deputy Director of Personnel
for Special Programs
Attachments:

a. Supervisor's Statement
b. Application
c. Physician's Statement
Distribution :
0 & 1 - Addressee
1 D/Pers
1 OPF
1 ROB Soft File
1 ROB Reader
OP/RAD/ROB/PSeidel : jat/3257

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Career Management Group

SUBJECT: Promotion of Mr. Calvin W. Hicks

1. I would solicit Career Management Group and the Promotion Panel
to consider the overall career of Calvin W. Hicks when deciding on the cur-
rent cycle of promotions from GS-13 to GS-14.

2. After Mr. Hicks EOD in 1950, he advanced rapidly in three years
to GS-11. He was promoted to GS-12 in 1956, six years later to GS-13 in
1962, and since then has been almost 12 years in grade. He has had over-
seas tours with FE and NE Divisions, has served as a training instructor, on
a PM task force, and with Miami Ops and area branches in WIH. In these
assignments he consistently received Strong ratings. Despite a largely para-
military background, in 1967 he adjusted to the intelligence production cycle
and developed the skills of an operations officer doing operations-oriented
reports work in the Intelligence Watch. As of this date he has the longest
continuity in the Intelligence Watch and is rated as a mature and thoughtful
individual who exercises excellent professional judgment. He was recom-
mended for promotion from GS-13 to GS-14 in April 1968 and in April 1969.
In 1970 he was recommended for a QSI by FI Chief, Peer deSilva. He was
again recommended for promotion in March 1971, in November 1972, and in
November 1973.

3. Admittedly, promotions are competitive and the rankings are rela-
tive and must be adjusted to the headroom available. The overall history of
his career would seem to argue the equity of granting the often recommended
promotion to Mr. Calvin Hicks as he nears the end of a career. Mr. Hicks is
49 years old and has a family of five children. He has a medical hold which
will not allow him to serve overseas at this time and he therefore, contem-
plates retirement at age 50 (in late 1974). He is and will be until then a
valuable member of the Intelligence Watch.

4. I recommend that the promotion which has escaped him in the last
decade be granted at the time of this year's promotion cycle.

L. A. Campbell
Chief, Operations Staff

MEMORANDUM FOR: Career Management Group
 Mid-Career Officer Branch

SUBJECT: Recommendation for the Promotion of Calvin W. Hicks (056361)
to GS-14

1. I would again like to recommend the promotion of subject officer from
GS-13 to GS-14. Mr. Hicks has been with the Intelligence Watch since June 1967
and his performance has been characterized consistently by exceptional proficiency.
He serves on a rotating schedule with seven other officers doing identical work,
some of whom are currently in GS-14.

2. A medical hold has precluded any further overseas assignments and for
this reason his stay in IW has been extended until November 1974, when he will
be 50-years-old at which time he plans to retire under the Agency retirement
system.

3. Mr. Hicks' resourcefulness and ability to apply the multitude of
reporting instructions and techniques have been convincingly demonstrated in
crisis situations such as the recent Chilean coup and the Middle-Eastern crisis.
He has consistently displayed initiative and good judgment in meeting unforeseen
crisis with rapid and effective action and has clearly demonstrated his ability
to continuously adjust to rotating shifts and the irregular flow of traffic.

4. For his sustained high level of performance in 1972 Mr. Hicks received
a quality step increase in recognition and as proof of the high esteem in which
he is held by his superiors. He occupies a GS-14 slot. His promotion is again
recommended in recognition of his long years of Agency service.

Concur: Eloise R. Page, C/OPS/INT Joseph A. Procaccino
 C/OPS/INT/IW

E2 IMPDET CLBY 002025

Calvin Hicks
SECRET

26 September 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT: Appreciation of IW Performance During
 Chilean Upheaval

1. The officers of the Intelligence Watch (IW) performed
admirably in swiftly processing the heavy flow of intelligence
engendered by the recent political upheaval in Chile. In many
instances, reports were in the hands of customers in the intel-
ligence community within minutes of being filed in Santiago.

2. Please extend to the IW officers concerned the appre-
ciation of this Division for their fine performance. I suggest that
a copy of this memorandum be placed in the personnel folder of
each of the officers concerned.

David A. Phillips
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 039964

SECRET
(When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CJCS 07/21/73
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)
056361 HICKS CALVIN W

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT
X
6 FUNDS
8- ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

OCO/FI STAFF

11 POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER
WATCH OFFICER 125
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB, ele) 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 18 GRADE AND STEP
GS 0132.07 13

18. REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

J.F.BLAKE

POSTED
1255

Use Previous SECRET
Edition "E 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622"

SECIET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Calvin W. Hicks

SUBJECT: Quality Step Increase

1. I was pleased to learn that you have been
granted a Quality Step Increase. Such recognition
is proof of the high esteem in which you are held
by your supervisors in the Clandestine Service.

2. Please accept my personal best wishes. I
am confident that your future performance will be
of a continuing high quality.

/S/ Cord Moyer, Jr.
For
Thomas H. Karamessines
Deputy Director for Plans

CSPS/SOB/Hileberman ; rv (11Apr72)
Distribution:
Orig - Addressee
(1 - OP/Files
2 - DDP/Registry
1 S/SOD
1 C/SOD/Pers
1 - CSPS/Subject File.

SOCHET

CONFIDENTIAL

10 APR 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, DDP/QSI - HMA Panel

SUBJECT : Notification of Approval of
 Quality Step Increase
 Calvin W. Hicks

1. I am pleased to send to you the attached
official notification of the approval of the Quality Step
Increase which you recommended for this employee.

2. As this award is designed to encourage
excellence by recognizing and rewarding the employee,
may I ask that you arrange to have this Quality Step
Increase presented at an appropriate ceremony.

Harry B. Fisher
Director of Personnel

CONFIDENTIAL GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
damanrating and
SECLET

SEP 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreign Intelligence Staff

SUBJECT : Intelligence Watch Assistance to
 European Division

1. As I am preparing to leave the European Division,
a note of appreciation is in order for the services rendered
to us for the four years of my tenure here by the officers
of the Intelligence Watch.

2. At a time of increasingly complicated intelligence
collection and reporting problems, our Agency has come of
age. We have recognized that information often cannot be
allowed to wait for attention until sunrise, and that we
must be able to respond to national needs and world events
around the clock. The Intelligence Watch, more than any
other single institution, has made it possible for us to
do this. We have benefited from its cooperation particularly
under strained reporting conditions - during Presidential
trips abroad, for instance but have also found IW's
presence and judgment helpful at other times. I know that
my staff relied on IW extensively.

3. I am making a point of recognizing this because
the Intelligence Watch a bit like our Agency as a whole
is apt to get more attention with an occasional slip than
with a record of continuing accomplishment and success in
coping with problems. From what I have been able to observe,
the job has been well done.

4. I hope you will bring this memorandum to the
attention of those concerned.

Joseph Procaccino Howard Orr John L. Hart
Walter Kuzmuk Calvin Hicks Chief
European Division
Robert Heron George Papadopolos
James Pekich Robert Sawicki
Frank Levy Pat Coble
SECRET
Enctee
SECRET
(When Filled in).
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
DATE PREPARED
22 December 1971
SERIAL NUMBER 2 NAME (Last Firet middle
056361 Hicks, Calvin W.
4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
YEAR
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Reassignment 122371
FUNDS
8
OV TO OF
FINANCIAL ANALISIS MOS
CHARGE ABLE
2222-4116
3. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
Regular
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DOFI Staff 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
Intelligence Group
Intelligence Watch Washington, D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
Watch Officer (14) 0947 D
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 18 CRADE AND STEP
GS 0132.07 13
21,313
18 SALARY OR RATE
HB: SOD
-
Distribution:
Orig. CSPS/SOB
1 FI/Pers

18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIA 188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED
DATE SIGNED
S. Garding CFI/SGB 22 Dec 71 Bilberman. 2-23-3/
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
19.ACTION 20, EMPLOY 21 OFFICE CODING
CODE
CODE
22. STATION 23 INTEGREK
24
26, DATE OF LET-
L100
ALPHABETIC
1/24377

23. SPECIAL
FERENCE
30 RETIREMENT SATA

55:45

84
B 5
31 S2 FARATON 32 CORRECTION/CANCELLATIO BATA
DATA CODE
FIPE
- CODE

CAR RESP

35
48.
FEGLE/HEALTH, INSURANCE 40 SOCIAL SECURITY NU

PREVIOUS 2IVILEAN COMME
NO PREVICUS SERVICE
CODE
31/41416
45. PUSTION CONTROL CARTRICATION
LEAVE CAT
43
COD
46. 0.5. APPROVAL BATE APPROVED
CORN
8271
1152
Use PREVIOUS
27100
SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUSED 7
-
5 MARCH 1971
MEMORANDUM FOR : SECRETARY, CSPS/SECTION A

SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF CALVIN W. HICKS
(056361) to GS-14

1. I RECOMMEND THE PROMOTION OF SUBJECT OFFICER FROM GS-13 to GS-14.
MR. HICKS HAS BEEN ASSIGNED TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH/FI STAFF SINCE JUNE
1967 AND SERVES ON A ROTATING SCHEDULE WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING
IDENTICAL WORK, FOUR OF WHOM ARE CURRENTLY IN GRADE GS-14.

2. MR. HICKS HAS BEEN IN THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH (IW) FOR ALMOST
FOUR YEARS AND HIS WORK, BOTH QUANTITATIVELY AND QUALITATIVELY, HAS BEEN
CONSISTENTLY OF A VERY HIGH CALIBER..

3. HIS KEENLY DEVELOPED SENSE OF OPERATIONAL SECURITY RESULTING FROM
HIS EXTENSIVE PARAMILITARY EXPERIENCE, COUPLED WITH HIS CLEAR UNDERSTAND-
ING OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATIONS AND INTELLIGENCE, HAS MADE HIM
A VERY FINE OFFICER AND A VALUABLE ASSET TO IW. HE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SU-
PERVISION FOR 18 MONTHS AND I HAVE HAD AMPLE OPPORTUNITY TO OBSERVE HIS
PERFORMANCE UNDER CONDITIONS OF STRESS. HE VERY ABLY APPLIES A MULTITUDE
OF DETAIL AND GENERAL REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS TO THE DIFFERENT SITUATIONS
MANIFEST IN EACH INCOMING REPORT AND DISPLAYS INITIATIVE IN MEETING UN-
FORESEEN CRISES WITH RAPID AND EFFECTIVE ACTION. SINCE THE INTELLIGENCE
INFORMATION IS THE FACE THAT THE CLANDESTINE SERVICE PUTS OUT TO THE IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, THE PERFORMANCE OF WATCH OFFICERS IS OF GREAT
IMPORTANCE. THIS FACTOR BECOMES APPARENT WHEN IT IS NOTED THAT OVER
75 PERCENT OF ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE DISSEMINATED BY IW.

4. MR. HICKS HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS
BOTH IN THE FIELD AND AT HEADQUARTERS. ALL OF HIS FITNESS REPORTS FOR THE
SIX YEARS PRECEDING HIS ASSIGNMENT TO IW HAVE BORNE THE OVERALL RATING
OF "STRONG." HE HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE, AND,
CAPABLE." ALSO, "HE WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND HIS KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY
ARE RESPECTED." OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS PRIOR TO THIS ASSIGN-
MENT HAVE DESCRIBED HIM AS "SERIOUS, HARD-WORKING AND DEPENDABLE." HIS
PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HAS DEMONSTRATED THESE SAME QUALI-
TIES.

5. MR. HICKS IS A DISTINCT ASSET TO IW AND I HIGHLY RECOMMEND HIS
FOR PROMOTION TO GS-14.

JOSEPH A. PROCACCINO
CHIEF, FI/INT/IW
SECRET

SECRET
14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, DDP QSI and Honor and Merit
 Awards Panel

SUBJECT : Request for Quality Step Increase
 Mr. Calvin W. HICKS, GS-13 (056361)

1. I recommend that a Quality Step Increase be
awarded to Mr. Calvin W. Hicks.

2. Mr. Hicks is one of three officers in the Intel-
ligence Watch, FI Staff, on whom identical recommendations
are being submitted. These officers, all in grade GS-13,.
have for several years done responsible and demanding work,
identical to that done in the same office by five other of-
ficers, GS-14 and 15, and all three have been rated "Strong."

3. The Intelligence Watch is the primary intelligence
dissemination office of the Clandestine Service. Its out-
put of over 2,000 reports a month is the chief end-product
of CS collection operations. Watch Officers serve on a
rotating schedule. When an officer draws the night shift
he serves alone. He must make quick, independent dissemina-
tion decisions. Mr. Hicks has done well at this work. He
is alert and conscientious and has a sharp operational sensė
which is extremely useful in the handling of CS intelligence
information. He has been recommended several times for pro-
motion to GS-14.

4. The high quality of Mr. Hicks's performance has
continued for more than two years. There is no reason to
expect any decline in it. His enthusiasm continues, and
his tour has recently been extended for another two years.

5. Consideration has been given to recommending him
for an Honor and Merit Award, but on balance I believe that
a Quality Step Increase would be more appropriate.

Perde, Silva
Chief
Foreign Intelligence

SECRET
Excluded from automatir
downgrading and
declass.fication

SECRET
14-00000

SUBJECT: Request for Quality Step Increase
 Mr. Calvin W. HICKS, GS-13 (056361)

APPROVAL RECOMMENDED :
Chairman, CS QSI Panel Date

Director of Personnel Date

SECRET
14-00000
SECRET

MAR 7 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FI Staff

SUBJECT : Performance of the Intelligence Watch.
 During the President's Trip to Europe

1. Now that the President's trip to Europe has been
concluded. I feel that a special commendation for the
Intele Watch (IW) is in order.

2. The contribution that is being made by the officers
in the Intelligence Watch is often taken for granted. Thus
it was natural for us, when we formed our task force for
the President's trip, to build our arrangements for positive
intelligence disseminations around the IW's twenty-four-
hour-a-day availability. we were not disappointed. The
system worked smoothly and efficiently.

3. In addition to that, it became clear that the
Intelligence Watch officers were willing and able to go
beyond the simple call of duty. We came to admire their
competence, courtesy, and cooperation, without which
effective intelligence coverage would have been immeasur-
ably more difficult. Since the IW's were working under.
an unusual strain, caused by the simultaneous outbreak of
crises in different parts of the world, their performance
is that much more to be commended.

4. Please convey our appreciation to all officers who
had a part in this fine effort.

CALVIN M. HICKS

John L. Hart
Chief,
European Division

SECRET
Excluded from automatic
SECRET
14-00000

7 March 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR : Mr. Edward J. Carroll
 Chief, Intelligence Watch
SUBJECT:

 Performance of the Intelligence
 Watch during President Nixon's
 recent Visit to Europe

1. I wish to commend you and each member of
your staff who participated in the support which
the Agency was called on to render to the Presi-
dential party during its recent travel abroad.
 From several quarters I have had verbal expres-
sions of praise and commendation and to these I
wish to add my own in writing. I am enclosing a
copy of a memorandum from the Chief, European
Division, which reflects both my thoughts and the
reactions I have heard from others.

2. I hope you will take appropriate action
so that the personnel files of each of your par-
ticipating officers will reflect this appreciation.
You may wish to make copies of my memorandum and
Mr. Hart's memorandum to serve this purpose.
4
Peer de Silva
Chief
Foreign Intelligence

Enclosure

CALVIN M. HICKS

SECRET

SECRET

Parek & det

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, CSPS/Section A

SUBJECT Recommendation for the promotion of
Calvin . Hicks (056361) to GS-14

1. I recommend the promotion of subject officer from GS-13 to
GS-14. Mr. Hicks has been assigned to the Intelligence Watch/FI Staff
since June 1967, and serves on a rotating schedule with seven other
officers doing identical work, five of whom are currently in Grade CS-14.

2. Mr. Hicks has been with IW for almost two years and his work,
both quantitatively and qualitatively has been consistently of a very
high caliber. Normally six months are required before an officer newly
assigned to the Intelligence Watch is able to handle a shift by himself.
At least a year is required before a Watch Officer can perform at a high
level of proficiency. However, in the case of this officer, in a little
more than a year he had earned the rating of "Strong" and has maintained
it ever since. Although most of his Agency experience had been in para-
military operations, he adapted quickly to the demands of his new assign-
ment. His keenly developed sense of operational security, coupled with
his clear understanding of the relationship between operations and
intelligence, has made him a very fine officer and a valuable asset to
II. He has been under my supervision for 16 months and I have had ample
opportunity to observe his performance under conditions of stress. He is
even tempered and level headed. His mistakes are few and infrequent and
these are usually of the clerical variety, not in matters of judgment. I
continue to be impressed with his thoroughness in handling information;
with the evidence of his coordination when the interests of more than one
division are involved. Since operations have to be submerged and the
intelligence is the portion of the iceberg which shows to the intelligence
community, the performance of the Watch Officers is of great importance.
This factor becomes apparent when it is noted that about 80% of all cabled
intelligence reports are disseminated by the Intelligence Watch. Recently
the Watch Officers were commended by the Chief, FI Staff and the Chief,
Europe Division for their performance during the Fresident's trip to
Western Europe. The simultaneous outbreak of crises in different parts of
the world further added to the burdens of the Watch Office at that time.
Mr. Hicks made a real contribution during that period ard deserves the
commendation personally in a high degree.

SECRET

SECRET
14-00000

3. Prior to his assignment to the Intelligence Watch, Mr. Hicks
served with WH Division and with the Cuban Operation. He has an exten-
sive background in paremilitary operations both in the field and at
headquarters. All of his Fitness Reports for the six years preceding
his assignment to the Intelligence Watch have borne the overall rating
of "strong.". He has been described as "highly motivated" "sincere and
capable." He has been further complimented as "working well with others.
and his knowledgo and ability are respected." Other supervisors have
described him as "serious, hard-working and dependable." His performance
in his present assignment has demonstrated these same qualities. He has
managed the transition from active operations to the life of a desk bound
intelligence officer with ease. I recommend him with enthusiasm for
promotion to GS-14.
SECRET

SECRET
14-00000
"ot Approved by
C
T.
C-1368

24 OCTOBER 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR : SECRETARY, CSPS/SECTION A

SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF
 CALVIN W. HICKS (056361) τo GS-14

1. I RECOMMEND THE PROMOTION OF SUBJECT OFFICER FROM GS-13
TO GS-14. MR. HICKO HAS BEEN ASSIGNED TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH/
FI STAFF SINCE JUNE 1967, WHERE HE SERVES ON A ROTATING SCHEDULE
WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING IDENTICAL WORK; FIVE OF WHOM ARE
CURRENTLY IN GRADE GS-14.

THIS OF-
2. MR. HICKS HAS BEEN WITH IW FOR ABOUT 16 MONTHS AND HIS
WORK, BOTH QUANTITAVELY AND QUALITATIVELY, HAS SEEN CONSISTENTLY
OF VERY HIGH CALIBER. NORMALLY SIX MONTHS ARE REQUIRED BEFORE AN
OFFICER NEWLY ASSIGNED TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH IS ABLE TO HANDLE
A SHIFT BY HIMSELF. AT LEAST A YEAR IS USUALLY REQUIRED BEFORE A
MAN CAN ADVANCE FROM "ADEQUATE" TO "PROFICIENT." AT PRESENT, MR.
HICKS HAS ALREADY PROGRESSED TO THE RATING OF "STRONG." HEις
ALERT AND CONSCIENTIOUS AND HAS AN OPERATIONAL SENSE WHICH IS IN-
VALUABLE IN THE HANDLING OF INTELLIGENCE.. WITH HIS EXTENSIVE
OPERATIONAL AND PARAMILITARY BACKGROUND, MR. HICKS HAS A FINE
SENSE FOR THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATIONS AND ITS PRIMARY
PRODUCT, THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES INTELLIGENCE REPORT.
FICER HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION FOR 11 MONTHS AND DURING THAT
PERIOD I HAVE HAD AMPLE OPPORTUNITY TO OBSERVE HIS CONDUCT UNDER
CONDITIONS OF STRESS. HE IS EVEN TEMPERED AND LEVEL HEADED.
MISTAKES ARE FEW AND INFREQUENT. I AM PARTICULARLY IMPRESSED
WITH HIS THOROUGHNESS IN HANDLING INFORMATION; WITH THE EVIDENCE
OF THE COORDINATION WHICH HE SO OFTEN ATTEMPTS WITH SEVERAL AREA
DIVISIONS WHEN NECESSARY BEFORE DISSEMINATING A REPORT TO THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY. SINCE THE INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION RE-
PORT IS THE FACE THAT THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES SHOWS TO THE IN-
TELLIGENCE ANALYST AND THE POLICY OFFICERS OF THE GOVERNMENT, THE
PERFORMANCE OF THE WATCH OFFICERS IS OF GREAT IMPORTANCE. THIS
FACTOR BECOMES APPARENT WHEN ONE NOTES THAT ABOUT 50 PERCENT OF
ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE DISSEMINATED BY THE INTELLI-
GENCE WATCH.

3. PRIOR TO HIS ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH, MR.
HICKS SERVED WITH WH DIVISION AND WITH THE CUBAN OPERATION. HE
HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS BOTH IN

PROMOTION RECOMMENDATION CALVIN W. HICKS (CONTINUED). PAGE 2

THE FIELD AND AT HEADQUARTERS. ALL OF HIS FITNESS REPORTS FOR
THE SIX-YEARS PRECEDING HIS ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH
HAVE BORNE THE OVERALL RATING OF "STRONG." HE HAS BEEN
DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY NOTIVATED, SINCERE AND CAPABLE" ALSO, "HE
WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND HIS KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY ARE RE-
SPECTED." OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR
TO THIS ASSIGNMENT HAVE DESCRIBED HIM AS "SERIOUS, HARD WORKING
AND DEPENDABLE." HIS PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HÁS
DEMONSTRATED THESE SAME QUALITIES. ALTHOUGH IT MIGHT SEEM SUR-
PRISING THAT A MAN OF HIS OUT GOING PERSONALITY WITH AN EXTENSIVE
BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS COULD ADJUST TO THE LIFE OF
A DESK-BOUND PRODUCER OF INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, MR. HICKS HAS MAN-
AGED THIS TRANSITION WITH THE GREATEST OF EASE. HE IS A DISTINCT
ASSET TO THIS OFFICE AND THE UNDERSIGNED WILL FEEL GRATEFUL IF
HE SHOULD DECIDE TO EXTEND HIS TOUR IN THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH BE-
YOND THE NORMAL TWO YEARS. I RECOMMEND HIM WITH ENTHUSIASM FOR
PROMOTION TO 35-14.

Edmond Panell
EDWARD J. CARROLL
CCF, FI/INT/IW
ATTACHMENT

SECRET

SECRET
5 APRIL 1968
MEMORANDUM FOR: SECRETARY, CSPS/SECTION A
SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF
 CALVIN W. HICKS (056361) TO GS-14

1. 1. RECOMMEND THE PROMOTION OF SUBJECT OFFICE FROM GS-13
TO GS-14. MR. HICKS HAS BEEN ASSIGNED TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH,
FI STAFF SINCE JUNE 1967 WHERE HE SERVES ON A ROTATING SCHEDULE
WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING IDENTICAL WORK, FIVE OF WHOM ARE
CURRENTLY IN GRADE GS-14.

2. ALTHOUGH MR. HICKS HAS BEEN WITH IW LESS THAN A YEAR,
HIS WORK BOTH QUANTITATIVELY AND QUALITATIVELY IS OF VERY HIGH
CALIBER.. HE IS ALERT AND CONSCIENTIOUS AND NEVER TAKES THE EASY
WAY OUT IN HANDLING CABLED FIELD INTELLIGENCE REPORTS. LOG CARDS
WHICH RECORD THE ACTION TAKEN ON EACH REPORT INDICATE THE SERIOUS-
NESS WITH WHICH HE APPROACHES HIS DAILY TASKS. THESE CARDS
FREQUENTLY INDICATE TIME SPENT BY HIM IN CONSULTATION WITH AS MANY
AS THREE AREA DIVISIONS ON OCCASION BEFORE ISSUING A REPORT WHICH
WILL BE DISSEMINATED TO THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY. THE EXERCISE
OF GOOD JUDGMENT IS AN ESSENTIAL ELEMENT IN THE PROPER FUNCTION-
ING OF THIS OFFICE, UPON WHICH THE AGENCY'S REPUTATION TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT DEPENDS. SINCE THE FINISHED INTELLIGENCE INFORMA-
TION REPORT IS THE FACE THAT THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES SHOWS TO
THE INTELLIGENCE ANALYSTS AND THE POLICY OFFICERS OF THIS GOVERN-
MENT, THE PERFORMANCE OF THE WATCH OFFICERS IS OF PARAMOUNT
ORTANCE. THIS FACTOR BECOMES EXTREMELY OBVIOUS WHEN ONE NOTES
THAT MORE THAN 80% OF ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE DISSEM-
INATED BY THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH.

3. PRIOR TO HIS ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH, MR.
HICKS SERVED WITH THE WA DIVISION AND WITH THE CUBAN OPERATION.
HE HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS BOTH
IN THE FIELD AND AT HEADQUARTERS. ALL OF HIS FITNESS REPORTS
FOR THE SIX YEARS PRECEDING HIS ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE
-WATCH HAVE BORNE THE OVERALL RATING OF "STRONG." HE HAS BEEN
DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE AND CAPABLE." ALSO, "HE
WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND HIS KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY ARE RE-
SPECTED." OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR
TO THIS ASSIGNMENT HAVE DESCRIBED HIM AS "SERIOUS, HARD-WORKING
AND DEPENDABLE." HIS PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HAS

SECRET
Excluded 1

PROMOTION RECOMMENDATION - CALVIN W. HICKS (CONTINUED) PAGE 2

DEMONSTRATED THE SAME QUALITIES HERE. HE HAS VOLUNTARILY CONTRI -
BUTED EXTRA TIME DURING CRISIS SITUATIONS, NOTABLY DURING THE
RECENT TET OFFENSIVE IN VIETNAM WHEN HE CAME IN ON SEVERAL OCCA-
SIONS TWO HOURS BEFORE HIS SHIFT WAS DUE TO START AND REMAINED
AFTER ITS APPOINTED TERMINATION. ALTHOUGH IT MIGHT SEEM SURPRIS
ING THAT A MAN OF HIS OUT GOING PERSONALITY WITH AN EXTENSIVέ
BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS COULD ADJUST TO THE LIFE OF
A DESK-BOUND PRODUCER OF INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, MR. HICKS HAS MAN-
AGED THE ADJUSTMENT WITH THE GREATEST OF EASE. HC IS A DISTINCT
ASSET TO THIS, OFFICE AND THE UNDERSIGNED WILL FEEL GRATEFUL IF
HE SHOULD DECIDE TO, EXTEND HIS TOUR IN THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH
BEYOND THE NORMAL TWO YEARS. I RECOMMEND HIM WITH ENTHUSIASM
FOR PROMOTION TO GS-14.

ATTACHMENT

I heartily endorse this recommendation that Mr. Hicks be
promoted to GS-14. As his supervisor points out, Mr. Hicks,