104-10179-10195 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: SAN JOSE
ACTION: DCAM/SA 3
INFO: DOP, CA.H, VR

SECRET 0323132
DIR INFO WAVE HANA. CITE SJOS 6699
REF: SJOS 8731 (54034)
[YAT TYPES AMWORLD]

1. UNDER COVER OF ODACID POLIT OFFICER MICHAEL H. MARTUFFI
MET IOEN, VISITING "ENGINEERING CONSULTANT", AT HOME PAO ON
2. APRIL. IOEN REQUESTED PRIVATE TALK IN WHICH HE QUICKLY PUT
FORTH THE REQUEST THAT MARTUFFI TELL HIM WHAT WAS KNOWN LOCALLY
OF NATOLO RAY'S TRAINING EFFORT IN COSTA RICA. HE SAID "OUR GOVERNMENT
ANXIOUS TO KNOW WHAT JURE GROUP DOING HERE" AS IF HE
ODYCKE EMPLOYEE. MARTUFFI SAID POSING HAS HEARD RUMORS גבייס!
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES PER RECENT SPEECH MANJEL KORA SUT NOTHING
DEFINITE. IOEN SAID HE FRIEND MANOLO RAY AND "פא "סאא בא HAS
BOUGHT 133 FOOT BOAT WHICH NOW IN PUERTO RICO" יכא דייכס זנב
THO BACKS RAY FINANCIALLY.

2. IOEN VERY KNOWLEDGEABLE CENTRAL AMERICAN SITUATION AND
FULL-FLEDGED NAME DROPPER. KIS COMPANY RECENTLY SECURED CONTRACT

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED
Copy No.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
EUROPE IS E! YORK. VIE? HIS BACKROUND AND ASTI. TO..
WONDERS IF HE KUPARKER AND IF NOT FOR WHO 25.
APPRECIATE INFO HIS STATIS IF ANY.
SECRET
SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: SAN JOSE
ACTION: DCAM/SA 3
INFO: DOP, CA.H, VR

ROUTING:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

SECRET 0303157
DIR INFO WAVE SANA CITE SJ03 6738
6633 54031)
YEA PICASOFLD

IDEN- ZACHARY DE CASTER OF SYITH AND GILLESPIE FUCISEFES,
JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA.

SECPFT
C/S COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
CABLES.

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Copy No.
