104-10194-10001
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL CREENED AT CIS HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMHTTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF METRESS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:   TARASOFF, BORIS D.
OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:  
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:  C/LAD
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
28 June  DAN HARDWAY 
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL
A
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RLHOVED FROM THIS FILE.

TARASOFF, BORIS D. TO
019477

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled in)

11-3070
27 April 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Transactions & Records Branch,
Control Division, Office of Personnel

SUBJECT: Custody of Honor and Merit Award présented to
Mr. Boris D. Tarasoff

Because of security restrictions, the Honor and Merit
Awards Board is acting as custodian of the subject's Honor
Award and related papers listed below:

Certificate of Merit:
When security restrictions no longer prevail, the Awardee
may obtain his award by calling the Executive Secretary.

Ellin B. Glenn
Executive Secretary
Honor and Merit Awards Board

Distribution:
Original Subject's OPF (St, 019477)
1  C/WH Suppert Starf
1  HMAB Case File

S-E-C-R-E-T

70
iN..
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Dari D. Teraso
TACUCH: Deputy Director for Pla
THROUGH: Chief, División

SUBJECT: Certs of

1. The Honor and Merit Awards Board is pleased to no ...ut the award named above will se conferred on you in recogait.. ms excellent service you have rendered this Agency. Security co siderations relevant to the award are explained in the attached mema...randum from the Office of Security.

2. The award will be presented to you at a ceremony to ... in the near future. Members of your family, Agency associate. intimate friends who are aware your Agency affiliation may a.. the ceremony.

:
3. Invitations to the ceremony will be excentes e Sec Honor and Merit Awards Board, Cifice of Personne. Lion 36 Please send to that fice the names and phone numbers of the ghoste you would like to have invited, and indicate any dates on which yo. v. no: be available for such a ceremaay.

ROBERT M. GAYNOR
Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Bourd

Distribution:
Orig Addressee
..- C/WH
D/Pers Reader Chrono/OPE
Secit, HMAB
! Recorder, HMAB:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET
(hon Balled lar
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED
1. SERIAL NUMBER
2 NAME -mit-Maddle)
019477
3 November 1970
J. NATURE OF PERSONNES ACTION
RETIREMENT (MANDATORY) UNDER CIA
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
4 EPPECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
11
DAY
30
TEAR
70
7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO.
CHARGEABLE
1135 0990
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
$ CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR
8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
188.613 SET 350
6. FUNDS
٧٢٥٧٠
VTO OF
CP TO V
X
CF TO OP
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDP/WH
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 1
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

11. POSITION TITLE
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
12 POSITION NUMBER
OPS OFFICER
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. I.8. etc.)
13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

D
17. SALARY OR RATE
16. GRADE AND STEP
GS
18. REMARKS

:
1
Finance
15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01
12 5
$ 16,084
18A.  SIGNATURE OF RECASTING OFFICIAL
CODE
Henry L. Berthold
C/WH/Pers
CODE
19 ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 25.
45 10
INTE EXPIRES
21
DATE SIGNED
188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

CODE
Layla 4710070
DATE SIGNED
Yn 10
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
23. STATION 23 INTEGREE 24. MDOTRS. 25 DATE OF BIRTH
CODE
CODE
C00€
OFFICE CODING
NUMERIC
29. SPECIAL
REFERENCE
2-086M
30. RETIREMENT DATA
ALPHABETIC
CODE
31. SEPARATION 32 CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA

V2.
3-FICA
36 SERY. COMP. DATE
MO.
DA.
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
41.
COOE
-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
NO BREAKIN SERVICE
2-BREAR ON SERVICE (LESS TRAS 3 TEARS)
3-BREAK IN SERVICE (MOKE TRAB 3 TEARS)
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
CODE
MO.
DA.
LONG (CAMP DATE
MO.
DA.
38
V2.
TYPE
CAREER CATEGORY
COOE
CAR RESY
PROV, TEMP
42. LEAVE CAT
43.
300)
FORM BARCUTED
MO.
DA.
39
CODE
FEDERAL TAR DATA
NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS
POP EXECUTRO
1-75
2-00
26. DATE OF GRADE
Tho. DA.
27.  DATE OF LEI
та.
MO.
DA.
VR.
33. SECURITY
REG. NO.
24. SEX
EOD DATA
40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
1.12-15
2-10 PT.
1-5 M.
2-10 PT.
HEALTH INS. CODE
O-WA/LR
1-YES
44.
NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS
46 OP APPROVAL
1-PES
2-80
STATE TAX DATA
CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE
EXEMP

DATE APPROVED
Dow H. Justice 105/70
GROUP:
ERCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC BOWIRGEADING
AND DE CLASSIFICATION
(4)

11-5-70
148
FORM
307 1152
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET

SECRET
(Bhen Filled In!

NAME OF EMPLOYEE (Lest-Farat-Middle) NAME AND RELATIONS IS OF DEPENDENT
CLAIM NUMBER
Self
70-0502
Taraso, Boris

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and
Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,
injury, or death incurred on 2 Jan 69-5 Oct 69

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder
as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATE OF NOTICE
FORM
14 January 1970
SIGNATURE OF BSD REPRESENTATIVE

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE
10-51076 USE PREVICUS EDITION.
SECRET
(4-1-35)

NAME OF EMPLOYEE (Lest-First-Middle) NAME AND RELATIONSHIP OF DEPENDENT
CLAIM NU

Wife-Anna
69-0264
Tarasoff. Boris

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and
Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,
22 June 1967
injury, or death incurred on

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder
as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATE OF NOTICE
SIGNATURE OF ASD REPRES
B. De Felice
25 September 1967
FORM
10-59 1076
NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE
US PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET
(4-21-35)

kho
I SERIAL NUMBER
019477
SECRET
Filled in)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

2 NAME -ms-addles
NATURE-OW PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT
6. FUNDS
ντον
VTO CF
CP TO V
XX
CF TO CP
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDP/WH
CATE PREPARED
25 AUGUST 1967

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
09
DAP
10 67

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO.
CHARGEABLE
8135 0990
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
$ CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR

LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Perwandi
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 1
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION
11. POSITION TITLE
OPS OFFICER
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. L.B. eti.
GS
18. REMARKS

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
12 POSITION NUMBER
0489
MAXX
10 GRADE AND STEP

13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
D

SALARY OR RATE
12 3
$ 11685
FROM: SAME/0418

1
Finance
18A.  SIGNATURE OF RECASTING OFFICIAL
CODE

Henry L. Berthold
C/WH/Personnel
19. ACTION 20 EMPLOY. 21.
CODE
CODE
3710
28
MO.
NTE EXPIRES
DA

35 VET. PREFERENCE
CODE
all
DATE SIGNED
25 August

188. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
(
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
23. INTEGREE 22: STATION
CODE
CODE
DA
ALPHABETIC
6:29 WH 45075
29. SPECIAL
REFERENCE

30 RETIREMENT DATA

2-CRGM
CODE
3-FICA
S-NONE
36 SERY COMP. DATE
37 LONG. COMP. DATE
MO. DA.
Y8.
MO.
CA.
41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
CODE
-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
1-NO A 18 SERVICE
2-BELAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 19405)

42. LEAVE CAT.
CODE
3-BREAN IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YEARS)
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
MUMERIC
24 HDOTES 25 DATE OF BI
CODE
DA
4

31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION, CANCELLATION DATA
DATA CODE
34
TYPE
мо.
CAREER CATEGORY
CODE.

PROV, TEMP
43.
DA.
0-4
DATE OF GRADE
40.
DA.
DATE SIGNED

27. DATE OF LEI
YR.
MO.
DA.
VE:
33 SECURITY

34 SEX

EOD DATA

FEGLI PEALT INSURANCE
40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
EALTH INS. CODE
1-71
44.
FEDERAL TAX DATA
NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS
1
FORM EXECUTED COOR

1-TES
2-40
46 OP APPROVAL
2-NO
STATE TAR DATA
CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE
EXEAIP.
FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
3-07
SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNCRABING
403 BE CLASSTFICATION
(4)

SECHEF
2 AUG 1967
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

THROUGH: DDP/OP Jaras. Borce Б

SUBJECT: Request for Early Home Leave

1. In accordance with HR 20-30b(3), it is requested
that approval be granted for to be-
gin home leave short of tour.

2. has been in Mexico City
since 5 June 1963. He last returned from home leave on
13 January 1966 but because his wife's parents are in
very poor health, the Station has requested on his behalf
that the date of his home leavo be advanced to 23 September
1967.

3. The Station and are aware of the re-
quirements to extend his next tour in Mexico City by the
number of days his present tour will be reduced.

4.3, a participant in the CIA Retirement
and Disability System, will reach mandatory retirement age
in November 1968. At that time he will be converted to
contract employee status in order that the Division may
retain his unique skills. (There is a continuing require-
ment for services as the Station's Russian and
Spanish translator which could not be met as effectively
by the utilization of other personnel.)

5. If this request is approved, please coordinate
on the attached cable to Mexico City.

SECRET

SUBJECT:
Attachment:
Bio Profile

CONCUR:
it hit
A DDP/OP
SEGRET
MS, Request for Early Home Leave

William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division
3 Aug 1967
Date
APPROVED:

Director
Director of Personnel
362
Date

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT. (Optional)
FROM:

ppm
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
OP-865

Patricia P. MacDougall
WH/Personnel
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
1.
C/WH/Personnel

EXTENSION NO.
DATE
3D5309
6815. 1 August 1967
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

2.
C/WH/1 384403. 
3.
SB/Pers 584804
4.
C/WH/SS 3D3102
5.
2 AUG 1967
C/WHD 3D3107
۵.
Mr. Collins
CSPS/AP GG10
7.
8.
9.
Call Lunita
x 4516
12
Hand Curry

August how had
24 months comemore
3dgme

tty
6. Aftiwth 1960,
CC's home shin hon.
bito 10. This si
accord with the of reemind
3 Big 14 you reaches hacero sing
this with Chief. WH.
6 to 101.12.
Recommend approval.
Anglet m... Collins

:
10.
3
DDP/OP 3C29
۱۱.
12.
D/Pers
Withers
3D5309
5E56

13.
14.
C/WHD
3D3 107
15.

FORM
3-02
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECT
CONFIDENTIAL

INNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

ここ 35:5

02

AMAT DISEMINATI
P
30

OC

144
SECRET
XONI
caror
ACTUAN TO
א
FILE NO.
