104-10171-10230 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

apv

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 9 JUL 60
S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY 03
ROUTING:
FACE 3/5

JUL 10 00292 60

ACTION: WH 5 (AR REYNOLDS) WH DIV NOTIFIED 2050 9 JUL 60)

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, COP, ADDP/A, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, 100 4, S/C 2

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 22641

TO: DIR INFO CITE: MEXI 5853

REF: A. DIR 38758 (OUT 94420) *

B. MEXI 5852 (IN 22332) **

1. LATE NIGHT 8 JULY COS HAD CONFERENCE PARA 7 REF 6.**
2. LI[LENSOR] STATES DID NOT APPROVE EITHER IN GENERAL OR SPECIFIC TEXT

SPEECH EMILIO SANCHEZ PIEDRAS NOR ITEMS TO BE TREATED SPEECH IN ADVANCE.

SANCHEZ SPOKE AS INDIVIDUAL CONGRESSMAN DID NOT SPEAK FOR GOVERNMENT, NOR DID
HE SPEAK FOR (WHOLE) PARTY (PRI). HE SAID SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN "AS IN

U.S.A." SPEAK FREELY AND ON OWN.

3. LI[LENSOR] SAYS PORTION SPEECH REGARDING CUBA WAS "WIDELY MIS-QUOTED".

HE SAID IN NO PLACE DID SANCHEZ MENTION CASTRO OR CUBAN GOVERNMENT. HE SAID
SANCHEZ EXPRESSED FRIENDSHIP AND SYMPATHY FOR "CUBAN PEOPLE" AND HE POINTED

OUT THIS HAD BEEN U.S. GOVT POLICY ALSO. REPORTERS (HE SAID) HAVE INTERPRETED
THIS SPEECH TO LEAN CUBAN GOVERNMENT AND CASTRO REGIME, WHICH LI[LENSOR] STATES

IS NOT MEXICAN POLICY. HE SAID "THE SOONER CASTRO AND TRUJILLO ARE GONE FROM
THE CARIBBEAN THE SOONER THIS PORTION OF THE WORLD CAN RETURN TO PEACE AND
NORMALCY".

4. LI[LENSOR] DID NOT RESPOND TO QUESTION OF WHETHER HE WILL MAKE CLARIFYING

STATEMENT BUT BOTH (LI[LERGO]) AND LI[ELEGANT] SAY HE WILL MAKE NO SUCH STATEMENT.

5. LI[ELEGANT] BELIEVES LI[LENSOR] WILL BE WILLING IN NEAR FUTURE HAVE MEETING.
S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

DATE

TO:
FROM:
ACTION:
INFO:
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T
1 2 3 4 5 6
ROUTING:
PAGE 2
IN 22641 MEXI 5853
TO: INFO CITE:

(PRI LEADERS) AND BRIEF THEM CUBAN SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES MEXICO. (COS COMMENT:

GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAZ, MINISTER OF INTERIOR, WOULD BE A PRINCIPAL FIGURE AND

SPOKESMAN IN THIS. (BELIEVE CAN GET HIS AID).

6. BOTH (LI[LERGO]) AND (LI[ELEGANT]) STATE NO PRI SENATOR OR CONGRESSMAN "OF

PRESTIGE" WILL STAND UP AND TAKE ISSUE WITH SANCHEZ. (LI[ELEGANT]) PRIVATELY STATED
HE HAS ONE OR TWO PRI SENATOR FRIENDS WHO ARE OLD AND WITHOUT POLITICAL FUTURES

WHO COULD LIKELY BE CONVINCED THEY SHOULD CLARIFY ISSUE, BUT THEY NOT "OF
PRESTIGE". ALSO, SOME PARTIDO ACCION NACIONAL (PAN), CATHOLIC RIGHT WING

CONGRESSMEN WOULD DO BUT THIS NOT CONSIDERED WORTH EFFORT BY (LI[ELEGANT])

(QUESTION OF PAYMENT HAS NOT BEEN MENTIONED ).

7. TO DATE HAVE FOUND SANCHEZ HIGHLY RESPECTED NOT PARTICULARLY TO LEFT
NOR PARTICULARLY CLOSE LAZARO CARDENAS. WILL LOOK FOR "PERSONAL VULNERABILITIES".

8. FYI: ANB HILL HAD TALKS WITH FOREIGN MINISTER TELLO AND WITH CORONA
DEL ROSAL (PRESIDENT OF PRI). SEE HIS EMSTEL WHICH COS HAS NOT SEEN YET.

9. VILL CONTINUE TO REPORT.
END OF MESSAGE
C/S Comment:

* Suggested operations for the field to attempt to carry out in an effort
to get the (Mexican authorities) to take issue with Sanchez Piedra disclaiming

the latter's recent statements.
** Stated that COS(I) would attempt to see LI[LENSOR](2) on 8 July.

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

9/22
