104-10165-10077 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS:

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: CHAYES, ABRAM
DCS FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DCD

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
RECEIVED | RETURNED | |
APR 17 | | BETH LICHTENFELS |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |
| | | |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

CONFIDENTIAL A-19-91-59
PROF. ABRAM CHAYES

BUSINESS:
Subject is with the following:
A000723 - Harvard Law School, Cambridge, MA.

CONFIDENTIAL DCD-459/78
19 April 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS
FROM : Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO
SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations
Request (OLC 73-0986/1)

The following material is forwarded in response to
subject request:

a. DCD file A-19-91-59 on Abram Chayes (on loan).

b. Documents concerning Monica Kramer and Rita Naman.
(Please excuse the poor quality of some of this
material, it was impossible to get a clear
reproduction from our microfilm.)

Ruth Elliff
Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

RELLIFF:wfc
Distribution
0 - Addressee
1 - DCD Chrono
1 - Staff A
3 - RElliff
3 - Control

E2 IMPDET CL BY 386090
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED
CONFIDENTIAL

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 19-91-59
PES-263-77
31 August 1977

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief, Boston Field Office
Chief, New York Field Office
Chief, San Francisco Field Office
Chief, Syracuse Field Office
Chief, Washington Field Office

FROM : Acting Chief, USSR-EE Collection Group, D73

SUBJECT : Case 64574 USSR External Policy - Pugwash Conference
Munich, Germany, August 1977

1. Enclosed you will find a list of attendees (Enclosure A)
to the Pugwash Conference held in Munich, Germany, in August, and
a set of questions (Enclosure B) prepared by the ORPA analysts
at our request. Since the original list of attendees contained
only the last name and first initial of each US participant, we
had to make some educated guesses as to the true identities of
many of them. As a result, do not be surprised if some question
why we felt they had attended. In many cases, however, there was
no question as to the true identity of the source.

2. ORPA has been quite pleased with the reporting generated
by their previous requirements. As a result, they have made an
extra effort to write even more thought provoking requirements.
We feel that the enclosed questions are the best we have sent out
to date.

3. Responsive reporting should cite the current CISL, Objective
Ala and KIQ 90. We look forward to receiving your responses.

THOMAS A. MESSER
L

Enclosures: As stated above
APBlake/bjp

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
E2 IMPDET CL BY
476500

ENCLOSURE A

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

Abram Chayes A199159
Harvard University

Carl Djerassi A 49345
Stanford University

Paul Doty A 46309
Harvard University

Bernard T. Feld A5927
MIT

George B. Kistiakowsky A6304
Harvard University

Richard Rosecrance A124263
Cornell University

Jack P. Ruina A99072
MIT

Herbert Scoville A157380
McLean, Va.

N. Murray Todd A123586
National Academy of Sciences

John S. Toll A28995
State University of New York
Stony Brook, New York

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTER
SUBJECT

WARN
INTELL
DCD COLLECTIONS
CONFIDENTIAL 19-91-59
(when filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

FIELD
RESIDENT
OFFICE

HBOS 64574 09146 2665976

SUBJECT AND AREA
Four Papers by Soviet Scientists on Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
Disarmament, the Complete General Ban of Nuclear Tests, and European
Security

(USSR) 09236
CONTACT Name, Title, Organization, Address
Prof. Abram Chayes
Harvard Law School
Cambridge, MA

SOURCE Name, Title, Organization, Address:
Documentary

SUB-SOURCE Name, Title, Organization, Address:
METHOD OF COLLECTION
INTERVIEW TRIP REPORT
OSG SREE ICG OTHER DOCUMENT
X X

ETF DESK OFFICER
Thebbe.

FIELD COMMENTS
Extra copies of
documents to:
JOHN SOUDERS OCI/SRE 7631
MARTHA MAUTNER STATE/INR/DDR/RSE/SOV 4841
GLENN BUCHAN OSR SF25
WILLIAM CHAPIN
STATE/INR/DDR/PAT 6638
AIA-06-01
MB0 KIO GRADE

AlalX6 01 1/1206
OSG Shee
FORM 25 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

John H. Mahoney
CONFIDENTIAL
BRANCH
Tom Wilber

EZ INPOET CL 36687

