104-10006-10247 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FROM: (Requesters name)
BRANCH BADGE NO.
ROOM NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST
EXTENSION DATE RID CONTROL NO.

TO TUBE ROOM DATE INITIALS
RID/INDEX DT-5
REQUESTER
RID/FILES DT-6
REQUESTER
RID/ANALYSIS GT-7
RID/201 DW-6
RID/MIS GT-6
RID/INDEX DT-5

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

SURNAME D'EDKOV,
(first name) Roman Fedorovich er Vilasa Nikolaevna
SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership,
I. S. affiliations, etc.)
Poss. at Soo. Eule is
RESIDENCE
New Delhi, Ind.
SEX DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP Minsk USSR
USSR
RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK
COMMENTS

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS
IN ALL CASES 201 CONSOLIDATION
1. Use gummed label; type or print all 1. Return this form with the card repro-
entries. ductions, also return pertinent documents,
aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on
② Upon receipt of index card reproductions
the subject exists.
draw a green diagonal line across the
items you do not want.
2. For each document to be included in the
3. Edit (use green) the reproduced index
consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference
cards to indicate: to be placed in the 201 file), green D the
corresponding card and check (a) or (b)
(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with below:
green D and note reason for destruction)
Examples: document destroyed; duplicate
or less informative than retained in-
formation; information of no CS value. (a) Consolidate into
201-
(b) corrections and additions, inclu-
ding infinity symbol ∞ when card in- (b) Open 201 file on subject.
cludes all facts contained in the
RESTRICTION (if any)
document.

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS FILE TO
CRYPTONYM BE KEPT
ASSIGNED YES
Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG RID
NO
are in RID/ARD, and those that meet
indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-l are
DESK
carded in the CS Main Index. If you Note 2. Information concerning foreign
believe there could be additional in- public personalities (except mili-
formation of value in these records, tary) may be available in BR/OCR
you must request an Archives Index x7997.
search.

DATE SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

13-00000

One Roman Fedorovich DEDKOV, born 28 March 1927 in Ariansk, USSR,

and his wife Vilasa Nikolayevna DEDKOV, born 31 December 1930 in Minsk,
applied for
USSR, were listed as applicants for entry visas to Indiad
sometime prior to April 1962. DEDKOV, who was issued Soviet passport
number 207461 on 17 September 1960, was scheduled to arrive in New Delhi

for two years as an English language teacher at the Soviet Embassy.
iF
It is not known whether or not DEDKOV actually arrived in New Delhi.

hot sent because it shows liomran to Incliions, a arving
Hot Rat
"home List" nut classified.

sew
10 Aug 1964

13-00000

INDIA 1 00
DEDKOV, Roman Fedorovich
Subj scheduled to arrive New Delhi for two years as an
English teacher at the Soviet Embassy; Ppt 207461 iss
17 Sept 60 (Hos Comment: Subj is presumed to have arr
sometime after sept 60). NBDA-8509, 24 Apr 62

Wife: Vilasa Nikolayevna (DPOS: 31 Dec 1930; Minsk)

DPOB: 28 Mar 1927; Ariansk
201-756.978
