14-00000

104-10220-10128 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR:	Deputy Director of Security
			(Investigations and Support)
SUBJECT		: C 
			 of
			 20180

ATTACHMENTS (IF ANY):

FORM
2-65
2413

DATE:

CHIEF, CI/OA

SECRET

(40)

14-00000

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DISPATCH NO.
INSTRUCTIONS:	1. Write clearly.
			2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write "NA".
			3. Attach blank pages if additional space is needed.
SECTION I - GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA
1. NAME (First)	(Middle)	(Last)	(Maiden)
2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT	3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different than Item 1.)
4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)
	(a) Lamby Interior, berilio

5. DATE OF BIRTH	6. PLACE OF BIRTH

7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramoure)

8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals)

9. DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible)
a. SEX	b. AGE	c. APPARENT AGE d. HEIGHT	e. WEIGHT	f. COMPLEXION	g. BUILD	h. FACE (Shape)
10. IDENTIFYING COUNTRY, INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS, WHEN AND WHY DISCHARGED, GIVE DETAILS IF WAR
PRISONER.

14-00000

SECTION II - CITIZENSHIP
10. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP	11. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Item 10.)
12. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Indicate as owner, tenant or sub-tenant)
13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Item 12.)
14. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED
15. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes)

SECTION III - OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA
16. PRESENT OCCUPATION	17. TITLE	18. SALARY (Per annum)
19. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings, bank deposits, securities and property)

SECTION IV - ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS
20. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
21. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

SECTION V - EDUCATIONAL DATA - SCHOOLS
22. NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL	NAME OF COURSE	DATES ATTENDED
FROM	TO
DEGREE
RECEIVED

23. LANGUAGE - LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS - COMPETENCE
READ	WRITE	SPEAK	UNDERSTAND
(List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence.)
YES	NO	YES	NO	YES	NO	YES	NO

14-00000

ATTACHMENT		HVCA-10757
PERSONAL RECORD PART I
DATE	PLACE	PURPOSE

1956	Miami, Florida	Tourist
1961	Mexico	Political exile
Feb 1961	Miami, Florida	Political exile
April 1961	Guatemala	Invasion (Cuba)
May 1961	Miami, Florida	Invasion (Cuba)
1964	Dominican Republic	Cuban Affairs
1964	Puerto Rico	Cuban Affairs
1964	Dominican Republic	Cuban Affairs
1964	Miami, Florida
Oct 1967	Venezuela	Work
Oct 1967	Miami, Florida
Oct 1967	Venezuela	Work
1968	Miami, Florida	Tourist
1969	Miami, Florida	Tourist
Mar 1970	Miami, Florida	Reentry Permit
Mar 1970	Trinidad, Tobago	Revolution-Business
1970	Bogota	Business
1970	Bogota	Business
May 1971	Aruba	Business
April 1971	Lima, Peru	Business
April 1971	Argentina	Business
April 1971	Brazil	Business
Oct 1971	Portugal	Business
Oct 1971	Rome	Business
Nov 1971	Vienna	Business
Nov 1971	Rome	Business
Dec 1971	Miami, Florida	Business
Dec 1971	Puerto Rico	Tourist

14-00000

SECTION VI - SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS
24. INDICATE ANY WRITING. GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS OR ARTICLES. ALSO NAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICATION DATES.

25. SPECIAL SKILLS, ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

good marksman with small arms

SECTION VII - MILITARY SERVICE
COUNTRY	DATES	UNIT	RANK	Duty
FROM	TO
USA	1963 1964	1st Batallion	2nd Lt.	Ft. Benning, Ga.

IDENTIFYING COUNTRY, INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED. DECORATIONS, WHEN AND WHY DISCHARGED, GIVE DETAILS IF WAR PRISONER.

None

SECTION VIII - EMPLOYMENT HISTORY
NOTE: INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT
26. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To)	B. EMPLOYER	C. ADDRESS
1944-1945	Pastora Sugar Mill	A San Jose de las Lajas
Los Villas, Cuba

d. TYPE OF WORK	E. SALARY OR EARNINGS	F. REASON FOR LEAVING
Chemist	230	Perrueter
month
27. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To)	B. EMPLOYER	C. ADDRESS
1946-1954	Sugar Mill	San Agustine. Las Cruces, Las Villas
d. TYPE OF WORK	E. SALARY OR EARNINGS	F. REASON FOR LEAVING
Chemist	310	Cuba
month Studying
28. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To)	B. EMPLOYER	C. ADDRESS
1956-1958	Self -(Fumigadora)	Las Villas, Cuba

d. TYPE OF WORK	E. SALARY OR EARNINGS	F. REASON FOR LEAVING
Fumigation	250	Cuba
month
29. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To)	B. EMPLOYER	C. ADDRESS
1960-1962	Tire & Rubber Co.	Lavana, Cuba, and
d. TYPE OF WORK	E. SALARY OR EARNINGS	F. REASON FOR LEAVING
Supervisor	500	Friedt
month
30. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To)	B. EMPLOYER	C. ADDRESS
1963-1964	U.S. Army	Fort Benning, Ga

d. TYPE OF WORK	E. SALARY OR EARNINGS	F. REASON FOR LEAVING
3rd Lt.	390	Cuban affairs
month

14-00000

SECTION IX - MARITAL STATUS
31. CHECK ONE	SINGLE	MARRIED	SEPARATED	DIVORCED	WIDOWED	ANNULLED

32.STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

WIFE OR 	IF YOU HAVE DEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE. INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND
HUSBAND	GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES,
33. NAME OF SPOUSE	(First)	(Middle)	(Maiden)	(Last)
Nieves Elina 	KIEKKAN GODzlezd

34. DATE OF MARRIAGE	35. PLACE OF MARRIAGE
15 Aug 1953	Colombus, Ga. - Muscogce County

36. DATE OF BIRTH	37. PLACE OF BIRTH
11 1955 30 04 55	Cienfuegos, Cuba

38. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH	39. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
Cuban

40. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Lant residence, Ir Jecbused Far, Myflower, Apt 24, Avenida San Juan Bosco, Tomasas, Venezuela

SECTION X - CHILDREN
FULL NAME	SEX	YEAR
OF BIRTH	PLACE OF BIRTH	NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Jorge Lola Posada	1955 Miami, Florida	American

SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give him, or her, present address)

None

SECTION XI - FATHER
41. FULL NAME	42. YEAR OF BIRTH	43. PLACE OF BIRTH	44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Luto Posada	Unknown	Cienfuegos, Cuba	Cuban

45. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS	46. OCCUPATION	47. PRESENT RESIDENCE
4110 Ave. 55. Clonfiegs, Cula
SECTION XII - MOTHER
48. FULL NAME	42. YEAR OF BIRTH	43. PLACE OF BIRTH	44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Dolores Carriles	Unseen Clonmieces, Cuba	Cuban

45. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS	46. OCCUPATION	47. PRESENT RESIDENCE
Housekeere	Same as for recher

14-00000

Subj Roberto Rom.
KUL to Posada +4
SECTION X١١١ - BROTHERS AND SISTERS
FULL NAME		PLACE OF BIRTH
Maria Concilitha Posate
NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Cer
1972 Cientes, Cuba
Cuber
SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY BROTHER OR SISTER (Identify brother, or sister and give his, or her, present address)

SECTION XIV - RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS
55. NAMES OF RILATIVES IN ANY GOVERNMENT SERVICLI INDICATE NAME OF COVEEMQUES POSITIONS HELD.
Wakuown (See previour P 11
56. RELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONDIGTS IN U.S. (Explain relationship)

Augusto Val Des Miranda (friend)

57. NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and number of castelicate granted)
I have aunts (2) and cousins (2) who aro American citizens.
I do not know anything of certificates.

58. NAMES, ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS ANGAN TO DE 600 BAY #Abr INTELLIGENGE
SERVICE.

SECTION XV - PERSCHAL ASSOCIATIONS
59.157 CLOSE ASSOCIATES. INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

SECTION XVI - MISCELLANEOUS
25 
SIGNAPA

14-00000

-- SECRET
PRO NO:
PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION DISPATCH NO.
INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER
1. This form av be filled in by the case officer of appropriate authority on the basis of the beat available in-
formation, 11 it 0 Set to be shown to the subject.
2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval untese requester furnishes answers to all questions
in PRQ parts I and 11. However, in in emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ap
plicable provisions of PR 10-913. paragraphe 60, 8. 126 and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or com
plete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.
3. Three (3) completed copies of PRO part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) com
pleted copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.
6. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRO forget in two (2) copies.
5. Pill in all items, if information obtainable: If item not applicable wrate "NA: If additional space required
for iten, use reverse side of page heyed to appropriate item. nümber.
1. CRYPTONYM	2. PSEUDONYM
SECTION I - CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT
1. INDICATE KOR, WHEN, WHERE, WHY, AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.
One review TI, A-2387, anted 20 urterber 

2. INDICATE MIETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR
HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM.
Culgent could be bursed over to sonable care offer.

3. LIST OTHER CADE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN, GIVE NAMES BY BHICH THEY HAVE
BEEN KNOWN,

FORM
1050a
(4-209
SECRET

14-00000

SECTION II - SECRET
MOTIVATION AND CONTROL
1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Bo detailed, if possible cito evidence. Do not use stock comment such an anti-
communist.")

interag

8. INDICATE PHAT CONTROL. IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if these in a lack of coal control
explain.)

Ewtect's present position and physical presence in Veroram
unteneste if his cooperation with IT tecne known to the Venezuelan severn

SECTION III - COVER
1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

estias are clandesting. Plausible dental is basedon contact with co in
als official cover capreity.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS,

1.fect accomplishes thin in the course of his actual rolopment.

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (Is working).

SECTION IV - INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING
1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, INDICATE THE EXTENT
SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

revious. In addition, Subject has been omployed in
Ten, na C

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, Iraends) WHO KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
NOTE (Pere
-1)
3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

thai co formal minių since being in Newzele (197). 100070:
Legion. Lace for period ten Rubleet worsel for Station 10/

SECTION V - COLLABORATION POTENTIAL
1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST
ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

e colisiorate for

2 SECRET

14-00000

SECTION VI - SECRET
OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT
1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED ON CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH NE DAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFOR
MATION NE HAS FURNISHED.
2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

::
air the c
of his neras morsia

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SURJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.
Cafest news Tron exterience that inforanstion is daad insted torcurtout

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
Sangeet is a unilateral penetration {.

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

SECTION VI - PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY
1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE

4. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
ts on offsets or
nus levoiv

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL OF ANOTHER AGENCY OF THIS GOVERNMENT:

SECTION VIII - AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT
1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: 1.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER: REMUNERATION, IF ANY) AGENCY
PERSONNEL ANOWN TO SUBJECT.
3
SECRET

14-00000

SECTION IX - SECRET
QUALIFICATIONS FOR UTHER OPERATION 3
INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY DE OF VALUE
FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

SECTION X - COMMITMENTS
1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEERLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE
COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

oject is paid a requiar monthly salary of arproximately 8 335.
2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Excmple: Commitments regarding evacuation
of subject and family.)
liene: jeet has been assisted in retaining his permanent resident statin.

SECTION XI - CE AND SECURITY
1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE HEDULTS,
Ftion files. berorators into revolved.

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFOSMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.
CA3 Covember 1971. 10. 72501 veer 1971.

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP,
PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY ODTAINED.	4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED
POS 17 Je

S. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE MERE POJI、も。
wewe vieni hjet estes to deres Hlity and
10.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE REEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST HE EVALUATED FROM A
CL/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIENPOINT.
SECTION XI
