104-10121-10130 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

16 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR : CCS/PRG

SUBJECT : Return of Alias Documents

Returned herewith are alias documents which have been issued
to identity in the aliases of (Miguel P. COSSIO) (Diego S. MARDONES/
(Daniel Suarez MORENO; Simon S MARTINEZ) These documents have been
utilized by identity for operational purposes. However, as he is
due to retire on 31 July 1975, they are being returned to you for
final disposition. The documents returned are as follows:

(Miguel P. COSSIO) (A)
CIA Credential #1716 FORWARDED SEPARATELY
Social Security Card
(Continental Insurance Companies Card)
10 Washington) Theater Club Card
29 (RCA) Record Club Card

(Diego S. MARDONES (A)
(0 Dade Country) Library Card
29 AAA Card
31 (Social Security Card
29 Humble Travel Club, Inc. Card
2(Pan American Bank Card
29 (ABC) Card

(Daniel SUAREZ Moreno (A)
Panimanian Passport)
11.31

SECRET/RYBAT
SIMPOLI CL BYC22552

Simon S. MARTINEZ (A)
Health Cert. #41716)
29 Nat. Science Book Club
29 AM Bowling Congress Card)
31 (SS) Card
3(GEFCO) Card
10 (Ft. Wash, Yacht & Tennis Club
29(DC Nat'1) Bk
29 (Best Products Co., Inc.)
Special Rep Credential #3389
Calling Cards

2. It is noted that identity also has a (Mexican) Passport in
the alias of Diego S. MARDONES MARTINEZ) This document is currently
maintained by identity who is on TDY in Buenos Aires, Argentina.) The
document will be retrieved from identity upon his arrival at Head-6-29
quarters and will be returned separately to CCS.

3. Records available in L.A. Division also reflect that
identity was issued a (Maryland) Driver License in the alias of
(Miguel P. COSSIO and a Florida Driver License in the alias of
(Diego S. MARDONES, These two documents were reportedly returned
to the Office of Technical Services in April 1974.

4. Should any further questions arise relative to this
matter, please direct your inquiries to undersigned on extention
X6300 or R1546.

Attachment:
As Stated
Joseph F. King
Chief, LA Security

Identity:
David Morales

ok 39418

SECRET/RYBAT
IMPDET CL BYC22552
