14-00000
104-10170-10109 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRE
Office of Origin:
Report Made At: Kaisong
Subject: OFFSHARD NEUMANN
Classification: Cryptonym
Reference: Report YXX-870 dated 11 Jan. 1945 entitled (ST 13
OFFICE CV SEATOES SUS
1- Srel. Event No: ra--4694
Date: Reviewod Covered:
23 February 1945 BR/0378012
Status:
Approved
As requested by Kunming, the following was furnished by two members of Air Ground Forces Resources and Technical Staff.
The first source, M/Sgt. Harry Staas states that Neumann's first name is OFFHARD. He was born and educated in Germany. He frequently mentioned the type of education he received under the Germans and also the methods of instructions. Sgt. INNES said that HANN was a mechanic with the AFO prior to entering the U.S. Army. Due to his work with the AV, MISITMANN is a close friend of General CHATTE. He is a quiet fellow and very seldom enters into conversation. He is bald due to typhus.

The second source, Mr. J states that was exiled from Germany and has been in China for a long time. Prior to joining the AV, he was an engineer. According to Mr. MRN, Neumann never expressed any political sentiments. He is a quiet fellow and seldom engages anyone in conversation. This source also states that he never heard Neumann mention his family relations.

UNDEVELOPED LEADS:
At Kunmings. This case is considered to be closed at Treivang. The Kunming office may obtain further information from other fellow soldiers of the Air Ground Forces Resource and Technical staff.

Distribution: Officer in Charge

2 Washington, D.C.
1 - HQ FE
1 NEAF 202
2 Kunming
1 - Feelyang

SECRE
14-00000
FORM FOR MANDATORY REVIEW OF CLASSIFIED MATERIAL IN CUSTODY OF THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS SERVICE

1/8/76
Date of Request
Name of Depository: JOHN F. KENNEDY LIBRARY
Address: 380 TRAPELO ROAD
WALTHAM, MA 02154
Phone #: 617-223-7250
I hereby request mandatory review of classified material (see attached list) in the records/document collection of
National Security Files
(record group or collection)
in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 11652, Section 5 (c).

Name of Requestor: Richard D. Mahoney
Address: 4019 S. Mill Ave.
Tempe, Ariz. 85282
Phone #:
14-00000
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
National Archives and Records Service
Washington, DC 20408
In reply refer to:
NLK-76-260

APR 19 1975
Mr. Gene F. Wilson
Information and Privacy Coordinator
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505
Dear Mr. Wilson:
E-76-124

Under the provisions of Section 5(C), Executive Order 11652, a researcher has requested the mandatory classification review of the enclosed document(s) from the holdings of one of the Presidential libraries. Enclosed are copies of the researcher's request and a document list. The identification of the library file which contains the document(s) is given in the document list. If there is any question concerning this request, do not hesitate to contact us.
Please review the document(s) and if they may be declassified, mark them appropriately. If a document should remain classified in the interest of national security, please provide us with the applicable exemption category from Section 5(B) of the Executive order and with a date or event when automatic declassification may be accomplished. We would appreciate return of the document copies with your response.

Sincerely,
EDWIN A. THOMPSON
Director
Records Declassification Division

Enclosures
APR 22
SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL OF ENCLOSURES
Keep Freedom in Your Future With U.S. Savings Bonds GSA DC 76.7638

14-00000
26 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, Information Review Committee
ATTENTION : Mr. H. G. Bean, Assistant for Information
SUBJECT : E.O. 11652--Richard D. Mahoney (E 76-124)
REFERENCES :
A. Initial Request dated 8 January 1976.
B. GSA Referral Letter w/att. dated 19 April 1976.
C. IPS Reply dated 26 July 1976.
D. Appeal Letter dated 15 August 1976.

1. Summary of Recommendations: Sustain the initial determination to deny the document in toto under provision 5(B)(2) of E.O. 11652, as amended. Add provision 5(B)(3)
2. Background:
a. On 8 January 1976, Mr. Richard D. Mahoney requested a mandatory review of two classified CIA documents under provisions of Executive Order 11652 Section 5(C). The documents were in custody of the National Archives and Records Service (NARS) in the John F. Kennedy Library.
b. On 19 April 1976, the NARS referred Mr. Mahoney's request with copies of the documents to CIA. The Agency was asked to review the documents. If declassified, they were to be marked appropriately.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 012170
CONFIDENTIAL When
Detached From
Attachments
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

If they remained classified, the Agency was requested to cite the applicable exemption category from Section 5(B) of the E.O. and a date when automatic declassification may be accomplished. They requested that the copies of the documents be returned with the Agency's response.
c. On 26 July 1976, IPS wrote to the NARS and returned copies of the documents. Both documents were found to require continued classification under 6.0. 11652 Section 5(B). However, a sanitized version of Item I was found possible and was enclosed. NARS could advise requester of his right to appeal directly to CIA.
d. On 15 August 1976, Mr. Mahoney wrote to the CIA and appealed the decision to withhold from declassification Item #2 of his request.

3. Recommendations:
a. Tab B-2 contains TDCSDB 3/657,851 dated 12 November 1963. During the initial review, the document was denied in toto to requester under provision 5(B) (2) of E.O. 11652, as amended. The document is based on ACL-1832 dated 10 November 1963. I recommend that the initial determination to deny the document to the requester in toto under provision 5(B)(2) of E.O. 11652, as amended, be sustained and that provision S(B)(3) of E.Ο. 11652 now be applied. The information is from a sensitive source with unique access to a political leader. If released, the information could cause embarrassment to the United States Government and exacerbate relations with a friendly foreign government.

b. During the DDO appeals review, a classification review was conducted. The document is properly classified and properly marked in accordance with the provisions of E.O. 11652, as amended. Due to the sensitivity of the subject matter, a meaningful sanitization cannot be made.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL When
Detached From
Attachments
SECRET

14-00000
OGC has not yet concurred in these recommendations.
Louis J. Dube DDO Appeals Officer

Attachments:
Tab A - References A-D
Tab B - TDCSDB 3/657,851
COORDINATION:
C/AF/PLANS
DATE 28 Jan 77
CONFIDENTIAL When
Detached From
Attachments
SECRET
14-00000
Aus 23 1976
August 15, 1976
Appeal
E-76-124

Information Review Committee c/o Gene F. Wilson Information and Privacy Coordinator Central Intelligence Agency Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:
Under the provisions of Executive Order 11652 section 5 subsection (C), I would like to appeal your decision which led to the denial of document 2 OF NOK-76-260.

Since I do not have an idea concerning the nature of the document, an only address my appeal to the general position that the change of governmental policies, the relinquishment of its African territories etc. alleviate the sensitivity of this document would the document be released in sanitized form?
Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to hearing from you.
Sincerely.
Richard Doyle Mahoney John F. Kennedy Library

14-00000
SECRET
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
National Archives and Records Service
Washington, DC 20408
In reply refer to:
NLK-76-321

DAY 10 19/8
Mr. Gene F. Wilson
Information and Privacy Coordinator.
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC-20505
Dear Mr. Wilson:

206
E 76-150
Under the provisions of Section 5(C), Executive Order 11652, a researcher has requested the mandatory classification review of the enclosed document(s) from the holdings of one of the Presidential libraries. Enclosed are copies of the researcher's request and a document list. The identification of the library file which contains the document (s) is given in the document list. If there is any question concerning this request, do not hesitate to contact US.

Please review the document(s) and if they may be declassified, mark them appropriately. If a document should remain classified in the interest of national security, please provide us with the applicable exemption category from Section 5(B) of the Executive order and with a date or event when automatic declassification may be accomplished. We would appreciate return of the document copies with your response.

Singerely.

EDWIN A. THOIPSON
Director

Records Declassification Division
Enclosures
MAY 19 I 24 Pil '76
SECRET
UN CLASSTUTED UPOS REMOVAL OF ENCLOSURES

14-00000
FOR MANDATORY REVIEW OF CLASSIFIED MATERIAL IN CUSTODY OF THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS SERVICE

1/8/76
Date of Request
Neale of Depository: JOHN F. KENNEDY LIBRARY
Address: 380 TRAPELO ROAD
WALTHAM, MA 02154
Phone #: 617-223-7200
I hereby request mandatory review of classified Material (see attached list) in the records/document collections of
RATIONAL SECUREC FILES
(record group or collection)
La accordance with the provisions of Exemtive Oder 11652, Section 5 (c).
Mame of Requestor:
Richard Doyle Mahoney

Address: 4019 S. Mill Ave.
Tempe, Arizona 85282

Phone:
14-00000
CTA
Summary Documents Pages

CONFIDENTIAL 1 5
SECREC 2 13
TOP SECRET -
Unmarked (but
possibly classified) -
Total Classified 3 18

Unclassified Attachments
(for information only)

Cla Clases Description (identification, subject) Pages ifica- tion

8/1/63 SC No. 00609/53B: "Significance of 7 S
FEC-African Association Agreement"

10/23 THES 20-37056,740: "Subject: Gents 6 S
of French Oficials on French Activities
in Black Africa"

11/23/63 OCT No. 2375/63: "Subject: African 5 C
Reactions to US Positions in Security
Council Debates on Portuguese Territories
and South Africa"

For archivist: Documents from NSF:CO:Africa, 8/63-11/63, Box 3
14-00000
7 January 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, Information Review Committee
ATTENTION : Mr. H. G. Bean, Assistant for Information
SUBJECT : Executive Order 11652 Appeal-
Richard Boyle Mahoney (176-150)
REFERENCE :
A. Initial Request from NARS dated
10 May 1976 with attachments.
B. IPS Reply to NARS dated 24 June
1976.
C. Appeal Letter, 23 September 1976.

1. Summary of Recommendations: Sustain the initial determination to deny in tofo TOCSDB-5/656,740, an intelligence report originated by Paris Station dated 19 September 1953 under exemption 5(B)(2) of Executive Order (E.0.) 11652, and add the claim of 5(B) (3) OF E.O. 11652.
2. Background:
a. Richard Doyle Mahoney, a membe member of the the public who is identified as a researcher, initiated on 8 January 1975 through the John F. Kennedy Library a mandatory review of TDCSDB-5/656,740 98 accordance with the provisions of E.O. 11652, Section 5(C). The request for review was forwarded to IPS via the National Archives and Records Service (NARS) on 10 May 1976.
b. IPS responded to HARS on 24 June 1976. Among other things, CIA denied in toto TOCSDE- 3/656,740, which was Itea 8a on the NARS request, ou the ground of Section 5(B) (2) of E.O. 11652. The

E2 INPOET CL BY 012170
14-00000
SECRET

reply stated that the document had to remain Classified indefinitely in order to protect intelligence sources and methods, and stated that release of segregable portions was not feasible. This was based upon a classification review by a knowledgeable officer with experience in French-African affairs, dated 24 May 1976.
c. Mr. Richard Doyle Mahoney appealed this determination directly to IPS in a letter dated 22 September 1976. He specifically asked if it would not be possible to release a sanitized version of the document without jeopardizing national security.
3. Recommendations:
a. See the Appeals Review Forms for specific detailed recommendations.
b. A second classification review was requested by DDO/ISS/PICG. The second review was conducted on TDCSDB-3/656,740 on 22 December 1976 by Europe Division, which decided to retain the classification at Secret in accordance with E.O. 11652. Europe Division determined after review that there were foreign policy and liaison sensitivities which precluded downgrading TDCSDB-3/656,740, or sterilizing the document and releasing portions thereof, at this time. Specifically the report describes in a critical and subjective way various French governmental entities and French personalities living and dead. The knowledge by the current French government that this particular information, or general information of this same type, had been circulated at high levels of the U.S. government would be detrimental to current U.S./French foreign relations. Further, one of the individuals mentioned is a former French intelligence operative and cabinet officer. Relations with the French liaison services are presently reasonably good, and disclosure of information of this sort would undoubtedly have a detrimental effect on future U.S. relations with French liaison services, as well as a probable spill-over effect on U.S./French foreign relations.
-2-
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL When
Detached From
Attachments
14-00000
urope Division determined that it eas also necessary to protect sotoces ud mo. The source is currently active, and access to information in the docement about the French security service was sufficiently limited tomt current disclosure of that information to in fact he likely to point the Finger of suspicion at a relatively small group of potential sources one of whom is source. Failure to protect
this source would in turn jeopardize CIA relations with corrent and future sottrees.
d. The undersigned appeals and litigation Officer agrees with this position.
4. Mr. Lavery of OGC has not yo! concurred in these recommendations.

Attachments:
Tab A - References A-C
Tab B - Full Test of TDCSDR-3/656,70
March E. Wood, fo
Mack E. Wood, . DDO Appe is officer

COORDINATION: DATE
X EUR/EXO William W. Phelps 7 Jan 77
14-00000
SECRET

OGC has not yet concurred in these recommendations.
Lanie
Louis J. Dube
DDO Appeals Officer
COORDINATION: DATE
C/AF/PLANS 28777

CONFIDENTIAL When
Detached From
Attachments
SECRET
14-00000
69579-9
P LOUIS OFFICR

PRALENNO
STIDA SUPPD (SEDAN)
BBERL3-0333
BIR SL-GL-220
WATER AND COVER URD, VDP, PESS CONILES
PAC ASY STOLA ZIEDE DE ESCAE VOLIANAEPS

S-25331

CONFIDENTIAL
14-00000
Chief, Contact Division
Attn: Support

Chief, St. Louis office
81-62-725
September 1961
John Mavrakos - Contributions to American Volunteers Organisation
Council

4SF-5-25331 A25331 4SE 5-2246
1. Martin Webb, a St. Louis official of the Internal Revenue S-Service and an uncleared cont este this office, caked us for any Information we might have on the American Volunteers Organization Council and, specifically, any information we might have concerning its reputation, bona fides, etc. This call was stilated by an inquiry from John Mavrakos, 15 Fair Oaks, Clayton, Missouri, a wealthy St. Louis candy manufacturer with offices at 4711 Delar Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. Mavrakos is of Greek carection and is an uncleared and inactive source of this office.
2. Mavrakos has apparently been asked to contribute charitable donations to the American Volunteers Organization Cancil, which in turn distributes funds in Greece for unknown purposes. Kavrakos attempted to locate the address of the American Volunteers Organization Council, which he bed been told was in Bev York, without any success. Be thereupon phoned the St. Louis Internal Revenue office about the matter.
3. Binco this exercise resembles an Agency funding operation we checked dla files irmoliately for correspondence on the aubject but found поnе. It is also conceivable that the may be a DO/P operation that did not pass through cur hands. Can you chock on the wetter?

DWerner/ur
 JAITINI

2000 0314

STAS
LOUISE UFRIEN
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY FILED

42815
14-00000
6627
CAEIDENTIAL
31 December 1975

MEMORANDUM POR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT : Elaine Fuller

REFERENCE : F75-4057
The FBI forwarded for our review two documents entitled "Cuban Travel Machine Listings." Release of these documents is denied under (b)(1)(b), (b)(3)(a) and (b)(6), POIΑ. (CSCI-316/02690-70 undated and CSCI-316/00515 dated April 1971.)

Charles A. Briggs Chief, Services Staff

E2 IMPDET CL BY 0012170

14-00000-
Administrative - Internal Use only

4. November 1975
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff
SUBJECT : Elaine Fuller
REFERENCE : Request No. 75-4057

This Directorate does maintain an official file on Subject. A review of this file and other records of this Directorate reveal the following information identifiable with requester.
a. Seven documents originating with the FBI. Please forward these document descriptions to the FBI so they can correspond directly with the requester.

(1). Subject: Venceremos Brigade
Date: 7 January 1970
Origin of Report: Washington, D.C.
No Bureau File Number or Field File
Number provided.

(2). Subject: Marian Elaine Fuller
Date: 10 June 1970
Origin: Washington, D.C.
No Bureau File Number of Field File
Number provided.

(3). Subject: Committee of Returned Volunteers
Date: 12 June 1970
Origin: New York City
File Number: 100-447724

(4). Subject: Marian Elaine Fuller
Date: 30 September 1970
Origin: Washington, D.C.
No Bureau File Number or Field File
Number provided.

(5). Subject: Marian Elaine Fuller
Date: 27 April 1971
Origin: Washington, D.C.
File Number: 100-47256
Administrative - Internal Use

14-00000
dministrative - Internal use

(6). Subject: Marian Elaine Fuller
Date: 30 June 1972
Origin: Washington, D.C.
File Number: 100-47256

(7). Subject: Marian Elaine Fuller
Date: 12 October 1972
Origin: Washington, D.C.
No Bureau File Number or Field File
Number provided.
b. One INS report entitled "Sugar Cane Cutters
Returning from Cuba," dated 29 April 1970, originating
in Portland, Maine. A copy of this document is
attached for referral to the Immigration and Naturali-
zation Service so they can correspond directly with
the requester.
c. Three documents originating with this Agency,
of which sanitized versions are attached. Further
descriptions are as follows:
(1). Name Trace Request dated 12 November
1968, exempt per (b)(3)(a) (sources and methods),
(b)(6)(privacy) and (b) (1) (properly classified) of
the Freedom of Information Act, as amended.
(2). Memorandum dated 21 November 1968,
exempt per (b)(3)(b)(CIA Act of 1949) and (b)(1)
(properly classified) of the Freedom of Information
Act, as amended.

(3). Cable dated 20 February 1970, exempt
per (b)(3)(b)(CIA Act of 1949) and (b)(1) (properly
classified) of the Freedom of Information Act,
as amended.

Charles A. Briggs Chief, Services Staff

Administrative - Internal Use Only
-2-
14-00000
JUL 28 7 27 AH 75 22 July, 1975
4401 Pine St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19104

Robert S. Young
Coordinator, Freedom of Information Act
CIA
Washington, D.C. 20505 IRS 75-4057

Dear Robert Young
I am writing pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, & U.S. C. Sec. 552, et seq., to request that you provide me with any and all records, documents, memoranda, letters and any information of any type or kind and in any form concerning me that is on file, in the possession of, accessible to, or maintained by your agercy. If for any reason you decide not to forward to me any of the information that I have hereby requested, I further request that you identify the nature of the information withheld and the reasons for your action.

I presently reside at 4401 Pine St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19104. I was born on 6 July, 1942. My social security number is 416-60-7822.
I ask you to waive any fees according to the Act which permits it when the request "is in the public interest because furnishing the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the public." I think this is the case.

As provided in the amended Act, I expect to receive a reply within 10 working days.
Sincerely,
Elaine Fuller
Elaine Fuller
14-00000
SECRET

17 November 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, Information Review Committee
ATTENTION : Mr. H. G. Bean, Assistant for Information

SUBJECT : FOIA Appeal--Elaine Fuller (75-4057)

REFERENCES :
A. Initial Request dated 22 July 1975.
B. IPS Reply dated 19 March 1976.
C. Appeal Letter Received 26 April 1976.

1. Summary of Recommendations:
a. Sustain initial determination to deny in toto to requester two DDO originated documents under exemptions (b) (1), (b)(3), and (b)(6) of FOIA. Remove (b) (6) from one document; add exemption (b) (2) to both Jocuments. (Tabs B-5 and 5-6).
b. Release additional information in three DDO originated documents previously released in sanitized form--excised portions exempted under (b) (1), (b)(2), (b) (3), and (b) (6) of the FOIA, as appropriate. (Tabs B-1 thru B-3).

c. Correct the names of the deciding officials in the appeal response to requester.
d. Advise requester that document B-5 super-cedes document B-6 and contains the exact same information.

e. IPS advise FBI that document B-5 supercedes document B-6 and that the latter should be destroyed to avoid duplicate referrals in the future.

f. Correct dates on documents 3-5 and 6.

SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 012170

CONFIDENTIAL When
Detached From
Attachments
14-00000
SECRET

2. Background:

a. On 22 July 1975, Ms. Elaine Fuller wrote to CIA and requested all and any information con- cerning her maintained by CIA under the FOIA. She provided some biographic information and asked that any fees be waived.
b. On 15 December 1975, IPS/DDA advised DDO that two documents concerning Ms. Fuller had been referred to CIA by the FBI.

c. On 19 March 1976, IPS wrote to Ms. Fuller and enclosed sanitized versions of four documents, three of which were DDO documents. Deletions had been made under (b) (1), (b) (3), and (b) (6) of the FOIA. Two additional DDO documents (those referred by the FBI) were denied in toto under the same exemptions. The exemptions were explained, the denying officials were identified by name, and Ms. Fuller was advised of her right to appeal. Ms. Fuller was also advised that FBI and INS ori- ginated material was being referred to the FBI and INS for their direct response to her request. [N.B. When IPS listed the four documents they erroneously listed the Deputy Director of Security as denying document 1 and Chief, Services Staff as responsible for documents 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. In fact, the Deputy Director of Security was the denying official of document 4 and Chief, Services Staff for documents 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6. OGC should point out and correct this error in their letter to requester].
d. In an undated letter received by CIA on 26 April 1976, Ms. Fuller appealed the decisions pursuant to subsection (a) (6) of the FOIA.

3. Recommendations:
a. Tabs B-1 thru B-3, B-5, and B-6 contain the documents constituting the DDO appeals review. Please refer to these tabs for my recommendations concerning individual documents.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL When
Detached From
Attachments
SECRET
14-00000
SECRET
b. As stated in Paragraph :c above, I recommend that OGC, in their letter to requester, correct the previous error in identifying the deciding officials.

c. Document B-6 is a CSCI that transmits an accumulative machine listing to the FBI. This document is updated periodically and previous listings should be destroyed. Document B-5 is the updated and final machine listing for 1970 and superceded document B-6 which should have been destroyed. I recommend that OGC advise requester that document B-5 supercedes document B-6 and contained the exact sare information. I further recommend that IPS draw this matter to the attention of the FBI so future duplicate referrals may be avoided.
d. A classification review of the five documents listed in Tab B has been conducted. The documents are properly marked and properly classified in accordance with Executive Order 11652, as amended, All non-exempt information has been identified and recommended for release to requester.

e. The FBI and INS documents pertaining to Subject located in DDO files have been referred in writing to the respective agencies for their direct response to requester. (See Tab C).
4. Mr. Bill Ashbaugh of OGC has concurred in these recommendations.

Attachments:
Tab A - References A-C
Louis, J. Dube DDO Appea's Officer
Tab B = Documents B1, B2, B3, B5, and 86
Tab C = NIS & FBI Referral Letters

-3-
CONFIDENTIAL When
tached From
Attachments
SECRET
14-00000
Working Copy

Elaine Fuller 4401 Pine St.. Philadelphia, Pa. 19104
Gene F. Wilson
Information and Privacy Coordinator Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Gene Wilson,
On 23 March, 1976 I received some material on myself from your files which only partially answered my request for information. Your letter indicated that an appeal should be directed to you. This letter consitutes that appeal pursuant to subsection (a) (6) of the Freedom of Information Act (S U.S.C. 552).

As provided for in the Act, I will expect to receive a reply within 20 working days.
Sincerely,
Elaine Fullor
Elaine Fuller
AFR 26 7 55 AM 176
14-00000
18 April 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

FRON : Frederick C. Randall Chief, ISS/Policy and Information Coordination Group

SUBJECT : American Volunteer Group; American Voluntary Guerrillas; Alternate Voluntary Government; requested by Terry Catchpole

REFERENCE : Request No. F-77-147
Subject organizations have been checked with all components that might have an interest or a record. The search revealed no records in this Directorate pertaining to subject organizations.

Frederick C. Randall
CONFIDENTIAL SC
14-00000
F-77-147
JE (pls ack)
919 North Michigan Avenue Chicago 312 643-0800

March 7, 1977
Xog/F ssent CY AIDCI

'reedom of Information Coordinator
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C.

Dear Sir,
This is a request under the Freedom of Information Act as amended (SU.S.c. Cection 552).

Briefly, my request is for information that may be in your files pertaining to a U.S. paramilitary organization known variously as the American Volunteer Group, American Voluntary Guerrillas or Alternate Voluntary Government (all AVG).

As you know, the amended Freedom of Information Act provides that if some parts of a filé are exempt from release, "reasonably segregable" portions shall be provided. I therefore request that, if you determine that some of the requested information is exempt, you provide me immediately with the information 1.hat can be made available. Of course, I reserve my right to appeal any such decisions pertaining to "exempt" material.

I am prepared to pay reasonable costs for locating this information.

Cordially,
Lerezan Catclipole Terry Catchpole, Managing Editor
LL. HUS!
14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
10 May 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

FROM : Frederick C. Randall Chief, Policy and Information Coordination Group

SUBJECT : Peter A. Schey Request - Ku Klux Klan, et al, at Camp Pendleton, California

REFERENCE : F77-025
The files of this Directorate have been searched with regard to the listed organizations' connection with Camp
Pendleton, California and the result is negative for each organization.

Frederick C. Randall

CONFIDENTIAL E2IMPOET OL BY21170
14-00000
F-77-025- EK
Pls acknowledge
LAW OFFICES OF
LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF SAN DIEGO, INC.

SOUTHEAST OFFICE
3040 IMPERIAL AVENUE
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA 92102
(714) 239-9137

January 13, 1977.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
Fort George G. Meade
Md. 20755
CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
Washington D.C. 20350
Attn. OP-09818
DEFENSE INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE
Ds4A
Washington D.C. 20301

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
Attn. Staff Secretary
Old Executive Office Building
Washington D.C. 20506

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
9th and Penn Ave. NW
Washington D.C. 20535-

DIRECTOR
DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Attn: SC (FOIA)
Washington D.C. 20301

DIRECTORATE FOR FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Public Affairs)
Room 2C757. Pentagon,
Washington D.C. 20301

CIA FREEDOM OF INFORMATION COORDINATOR
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCY AGENCY
Washington D.C. 20505

RE: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
Making Copy Ed K.:

h have any that records, but, if in he insists his request, ure! il him to have fee deposit.

SPR

He had "my pile request 75-5938 ER

This is a request under the Freedom of Information Act as amended (5 U.S.C. $552).

JAH 17 4 35 PH 77
14-00000
Page 2 (continued)

I am writing this letter on behalf of myself and Dr. Carlton Goodlett and Reporter Publications.

Pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. $552. as amended by Pub. L. 93-502, 88 Stat. 1561, we wish to obtain access to and the opportunity to copy the following documents:
1. All directives, memoranda, letters, orders, reports, investigations, studies or other records, including written memoranda of telephone conversations, which relate to the formation, existence, activities, operations, membership, size or presence