104-10418-10230
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES 37-2 RUN BY REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT STAFF
ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR. 
1 4
2 5
3 6

CHAISES , YEURG, ISIAlic ISIAJEL
ISTA, Jery JEPS/E2 SA/Ple

T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 21 IN 459495
TOR:291001Z NOV 77 HAGU 33077

SECRET 090945Z NOV 77 STAFF

CITE THE HAGUE 33077

TO: DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MHCOLOR

REF: ONHA-40412, 4 MAY 1977

1. SENSITIVE SYMPATHIZER SOURCE INDICATES THAT ON
3 OCTOBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT MEET WITH
CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE HAGUE. OLTMANS STATED HE GOING "TO
AMERICA ON 18TH" AND THAT HE " IS INDEED PREPARED TO GO
AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD
VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR
3 OCTOBER AND WANTED COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY.
OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO
SCHEUDLE MEET WITH HIM DURING SEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD
BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED.
OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN,

3. ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE
CONTACT WITH CUEAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT
TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET

13-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES RUN BY REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT STAFF
ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR. 
1 4
2 5
3 6

T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 22-02 IN 459495
TOR:091001Z NOV 77 HAGU 33077

IS OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME
OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF
INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGNECE
AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE. IF HOS DEEMS
IT APPROPRIATE, ND STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE,
WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL
AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE: 221-155221, E2, IMPDET.

c/s SUGGESTS ADD DISSEM To oc

SECRET
