1400000
104-10073-10061
2/17
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

de Verona

INFORMATION REPORT
INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CO-U-P-1-0-3-

COUNTRY El Belveder REPORT NO: 00-A-322856 کی
SUBJECT Report de Craftticas of the Country DATE DISTR. 28 June 1962
Ishaitsed by a Special Representative NO. PAGES 1
of the Cuban Rutional Revolutionary
Counsil REFERENCES (mimi-4417)
c/s Rodrigues

DATE OF 7 Jaa 62 THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION Source: DR. Jose Jose
INFO.
PLACE & Sam Seivader 2 Way 12 Julio FERNANDEZ Gutierrez
DATE ACO.
SOURCE: Caben national exiled in the 25.
05

Ssaree tseleyer who returas, vesnatly frem a trip to the Coutral knogicen
countries as special rape 6. Zyn Cuban leveleticwary Commit.

(This repert was Coveloped by An Army representative eecoigaed to the office
of preparation.)
Attached

(Sicbo Giá Libaney is a copy of a papert in Spenick by Jose Jalic
Peroendez Coclerres to Antonio de Vares. This repart, wristsa en 2 hay 62,
is a full report to the Revolutionery Council of Cuba xogarding gewesel
condiciosa in 81 Salvador sad specifically dealing with Cubens to that country.
The author of the ropest was sent to El Salvador for this particular paryoce
and agent 45 days in El Salvados cuid other Central American countrico.
Claseified: CONFIRMUTIAL.)

-cod-
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

6/28 Ye Manus
Routed to 77W
with suggeste
they forward.
to area
Pantalet Gran Colocatie
#09583xlerettissties
```