14-00000
104-10185-10244 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division 26 JUN 1964
ATTENTION : Mr. Leonard Libby, WH/SA/CI

THRU : Mr.(Walter Richardson)

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Operational Support)

SUBJECT : COVERT SITE 24
Apartment G 32
Summit Hills Apartments
$500 16th Street
Silver Spring, Maryland
#353 598

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 19 May 1964 to the
Chief, Safehouse Procurement Branch, Office of Logistics. This meno-
randum requested the procurement of a safehouse to be occupied by a
Latin American. The safehouse was to be located in the Bethesda, Mary-
land area.

2. This will confirm verbal security approval provided the Safe-
house Procurement Branch by this office for the use of the Subject
Covert Site. Forwarded herewith is a report dated 18 June 1964 of the
security survey conducted on the Subject premises. Your attention is
directed to Section VI on Page 2 of this report which lists possible
security hazards. This is brought to your attention so that you will
be able to take appropriate action to prevent any compromise of activi-
ties at the Subject Covert Site.

3. For your information a search of Office of Security Indices
in the names of the individuals listed in the attached report has
failed to reveal ary additional noteworthy or derogatory information
identifiable with them.

4. Under no circumstar.ces may classified material be stored in
the Subject Covert Site. In addition, the Sucject Covert Site may not
be loaned to or utilized by another component of the Agency without the
prior concurrence of the Central Cover Starf, the Safehouse Procurement
Branch, Crice of Logistics and this office.

SECRET
Exempt from automatio
downgrading and
declassification
Jpp//pl

14-00000

SECRET

5. It is requested that the attached report be returned to this
office in a sealed envelope marked, "To Be Opened By Addressee Only"
when your office has no further need for it.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Victor R. White

Attachment:
Report dated 18 June 1964.

cc: Central Cover Staff
Safehouse Procurement Branch

SECRET

14-00000

ECRET

OFFICE OF SECURITY
Support Division

REPORT
OF
INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF
REPORTS

SEORET

14-00000
FILE NO. 983 303

SECRET

DATE 18 June 1961

SYNOPSIS

I.

The SUPJECT SITE is located in the east
wing on the ground Hoor of an apartment building
6500 16th Street. The building is
located in a large portment development, known
as Summ. Hills Apartmen and located a
short distence off olith-Street) mein Washington thoroughfare and (E are, and Est-West highway
Route 24 Transportatio and personal al ser service
facilities are readily variable. Telephon
service is on an individual subscriber ba:is.
Fire and police protection are adequate. Only
possible Security bazara notes SUBJECT SITE
is tae proximity of SUBJECT SITE'S windows to
nos able penetration cromatutomobiles marked in
nt par lot and people located at
ground level on the outside of the SUBJECT SITE.
Biorach real data on the face CLASS apartments
are contained in
and16 יf ו
the
report.
FORM
1125

REPORT NO.
51

12/1~
598

SEUL!

DESCRIPTION OF AREA

THE SUBJECT SITE building is located ana
modern middle-class apartment development kiriwה וו
24 Gumit His Apartments which is locate cated alongחנים ה
thoroughfare of Sashinston. D.C .C., Sta Street and
Route 10 Fast-West highway. The SUBJECT SITE building
is located n Lontgomery County, Maryland. To the south
of the SUBJECT SITE Slate is another apertment building
known as th Street 1. Summit Hills Apartments) 24
which is located approximately Yit Yitty cards soute of the
SUBJECT SITE building. Sth Street)
and SUBJECT SITE LULidin is located a large parking,
lot. Access to tais persing lot Aricich is parallel
to the eastwing on the SURJECT SITE BUILDING, can be
10 by from either
Sained by proceedinting proceeding in a westerts direction or from Loth Street Ariced highway, which toss entrance to the parkin Lot top
itiner East-West has.
sond Vehicies ny Sou
of SUBJECT SITE buidragore additiorel apartment buildings
soud Vehicies is
The east or SUBJECT SITE buiding
to
y
is laid out in
rainar
.
it
.
rand
porain reas.
rect SUBJECT SITE
St
the form of
across with wings extending north, south.
east, and west. SUBIECT SITE is located in the extreme
southeast corner of the east wing of SURJECT SITE Building
D. C. Transit bus service is available alen East-Ves24
high the parking lot located in close proximity
to SUBJECTITE is a bus stop for D.C. Transit.
parking lot is located directly forte of the east wing
of SURJECT SITE buildin... avicab service is also
available. Complete personal services are located
erprosimately mil mile away in Silver Spring, Maryland,
which can be reached by traveli
eling cast ce Route 10
buls of parking area for automobiles surrounds the SUBJECT
SITE building.

1.

SCRIPTION OF SITE

No interior ipsection of the SUBIECT SITE was
mconducted. STILET SITE may te enteree tarot
by entro trace 10mtred midway.
1. m
(1
fon the mouth side of the casting ot the SURJECT SITE bailding

SECRET
14-00000
3/17

SECHET
383 598

SUBJECT SITE is slocated on the ground level of the
SUBJECT SITE building. Do elevators are located at
the rear of the lobby and a sirway to all floors of
SUBJECT SITE buildi cated at the extreme cast
end of the east wing.

-:
IYCOMMUNICATION SYSTEM

Telephone service is provided by Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Company on an individual subscriber basis.

V FIRE AND POLICE PROTECTION

Police protection is afforded by the Montromery
County Folice Department which has substation located on
Georgia Avenue in Silver Sprint, Maryland. Fire protection
is afforded by the Silver Soring Fire Department.

VI. POSSIBLE SECURITY HAZARDS

SUBJECT SITE is located on the ground floor of
SUBJECT SITE building (below tround level) and, thus,
SUBJECT SITE'S windows are st round level. Visual and
technical penetration may be possitie from the land area
surroundings, SUBJECT SITE building and from the parking
lot located approximately fifteen yards to the south of
SUBJECT SITE ualdin and SUBJECT SITE. No other security
hazards were noted and the closest ulding to SUEJECT SITE
building 1 approximately fifty yards awaj.

VII. OUTLINE OF EXHIBITS

Exhibit 1 diásram depicting SUBJECT SITE
building and area surrounding it.
Eshabit B - dia ram of round level floor of
SUBJECT SITE buildire.

VIII. SICGRAPHICAL DA ΓΑ
Apartment G10.

This apartment is occupied by one Gichael R.
SCHRIFR) born 1922 in Maryland and married to Joan. SCHRIERS Csc
a been employed ter - vears as an investigator by Paul Paul
M. SACHS. 520 Connecttet Avenue, W
NW.Jwho
he is further turtl

SECRET

14-00000
35
Py

383 598
desertbed by credit sources as an attorney specializing
in investmen Addit information indicates
that SCHRIER previously resided Perry Place and was
previously employed ty The WIGWAM) General Gig) shop. No
detrimental credit Laformation, police information, or
House Committee on Un-American Activities records were-
reflected in the name of SCHRIER or his wife.

Apartment 118 (located directly over SUBJECT SITE)

This apartment to the residence of (Esther JOLLES)
white female born OrnCz C2 December 1892 in Russia and her
daughter lored JOLLES) white female for whom two dates
of birtipare listed: 17 May Dand March 1917. born
New York Other JOLLES) is the widow of Joseph 1. JOLLES)
whom Montgomery Count: Health Department records reflected
died of natural causes on 23 June-1960, MrJLLES) was
formerly the president of the Maryland Belt Parkway
Development Ine. Silver Spring, Maryland, and the Northod
Portal Construction Company) A previous address of 50508
15th Street. NW is reflected lected tor Joseph (Jos 1. JCLLES)
Mildred JULES) and Esther JCLES)
Immigration and Naturalization records reflected
received a certificate of citizenship
through derivative means on 1961) Sther JOLLE
is not a naturalized citizen but received her certificate
of citizenship through fer tether. Immigration and
Naturalization fale derivative number (A-102705) alien
number (121:57720 is located in Baltimore, Maryland. Esther
JULLES is employed as a homemaker. Credit sources reflect
a credit rating ranong trom poor to to satisfactory in the
name of Joseph Dand Esther JELLES

Mildred JOLLFS) daughter of Esther JOLLES) is
employed as an analyst by the Quartermaster Corps. Depart-
ment of the Army. Pentagon. An additional address of
Secord and D Streets plso reflected for Guldred
JCLLES) roloyment. Mildred JOLLES game to Sashington
from New York or 31 Jugt 1 194 is Lingle, and has no
dependents. Credit sources reflect poor to satisfactory
credit rating on the name of Mildred JULLES record
for either Mildred JOLLES or Esther JOLLES as reflected
an appropriate polices arencies and
at appropriate police agencies and the House Committee on
