14-00000

104-10229-10002	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

VOL 57 - CRC	BRAIN
AUG 1968	BUDGET
				FINANCE
				FOLDER - 4
RETIRED FILE
DESENSITIZED
per CSA 43-43

RETURN TO RECORDS 2
INMEDIATELY AFTER LISE
FOLDER 
BOX

407-54

14-00000

PORM
2593
(2-60)
CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT 
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE
CONFIDENTIAL

(1-13)

14-00000

ORIC: NGratz:f11
UNIT: WH/COG/SA
EXT: R-1325
DATE: 19 August 1968

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 25

S-E-C-R-E-T

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY:

CONF.: 33
PER WH/COG 8.
INDEX [ ] DESTROY [ ] RETURN TO:
BRANCH: []FILE END: []
NO INDEX [] FILE IN CS FILE NO.
INFO [ ] RID COPY [] FILE: [ ] TRI/AN, WH 8, OGC 2, D04.

(classification)
SECRET

TO JMWAVE INFO: JMCOBRA
(date and time filed)
(atite)
(reference number)
CITE DIRECTOR: 257.1.2

TYPIC AMBUD

1. PER DISCUSSION WITH MARTHA B. DRANGELIS HOS RECOMMENDS
MANUEL (REYES) GARCIA (CASE NO. 122) AND ANGEL (PASTRANA) SANTOS
(CASE NO. 118) TRUST ACCOUNTS ALSO BE TERMINATED.

2. REQUEST BALANCES ON DEPOSIT BE T/A'D HQS FOR TRANSFER 
TO MHMUTUAL ACCOUNT.

END OF MESSAGE

OGC/MHMUTUAL D. Fielder (telecon)
WH/B&F
WH/COG/SA

CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICER

S-E-C-R-E-T

William V. Broe
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

Elleatt Cava
19-124-25/6
19 Aug 1968
David A. Phillips
C/WH/COG

Excluded from automatie
downgrading and
desigssification

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICES

GROUP 1

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000

ORIG: 
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:
N. GRATZjgh
WH/COG/SA
4163
30 JULY 1968
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 20
SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
DY: 15 mm.
CONF:
WH/COG B
INDEX [ ] DESTROY [ ] RETURN TO:
BRANCH: [ ]FILE ND: [ ]
NO INDEX [ ] FILE IN CS FILE NO. 19-124-25/6
INFO [ ] RID COPY [ ] FILE: [ ] ve WH8, CI/OA

(classification)
SECRET
TO: JMWAVE INFO JMCOBRA
(date and time filed)
(elite)
(reference ben
CITE DIRECTOR: 20867

TYPIC AMBUD

REF: UFGT-22352*

31 16 432 JUL 68

CONCUR PAYMENT PLAN PROPOSED PARA 3 REF.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG Comment: *Dependent mother dead Brigader advised AMTIKI
of arrival U.S. and requested money held in
trust. Monthly amount has also been paid to
account of dependent father whom mother advises
has been dead since February 1962. JMWAVE
proposes. pay mother $13,125 (75 months at
$175 per month) and turn over remaining
$780.57 in account ($50 per month deposited
for father plus 6 years accrued interest)
to JMWAVE Finance Officer.

CS COPY
19-124-25/6
1 August 1968

WILLIAM V. BROE 2
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

David A. Phillips
C/WH/COG

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatie
Srungrading ang
gesigsausties

AUTHENTH.ATING
OFFICEE
OPEN

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
DISP NO
DATE
70
FROM
SUBJ
ET TELEPOUCH
UFGT 22352
29 JULY 1968
CHIEF, :: DIVISION
ACT ING CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE
ARRIVAL IN U.S. OF BRIGADE DEPENDENT FROM CUBA
AND SETTLEMENT OF TRUSTEE ACCOUNT.
ACTION REQUIRED - REQUEST CABLE CONCURRENCE OF JAVAVE's
PLAN IN PARA 3.
1. MRS. CLARA MOLINA CABRERA ARRIVED IN THE UNITED
STATES FROM CUBAN AND CONTACTED AMT IKI-1 BY LETTER DATED 2
JUNE 1968. MRS. MOLINA IS THE MOTHER OF MARIABO SANTOS
MOLINA, KILLED DURING THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. THE HISTORY
OF THIS CASE IS AS FOLLOWS.
A.. MARIANO DESIGNATED HIS MOTHER AND FATHER, BOTH
IN CUBA AS HIS DEPENDENT SO MARIANO ALSO DESIGNATED CARLOS
FERNANDEZ CAMPOS AS HIS TRUSTEE TO HANDLE ALL MOVIES FOR HIS
DEPENDENTS.
B. AMIIKI-I'S RECORDS SHOW THAT CARLOS FERNANDEZ
CAMPOS VAS PAID AT THE RATE OF $225.00 PER MONTH FROM APRIL
1961 TO APRIL 1962. ACCORDING TO THE RECORD, ALL PAYMENTS
TO CARLOS FERNANDEZ CAMPOS CEASED AT THAT TIME BECAUSE "CARLOS
FERNANDEZ DID NOT ACCOUNT IN A SATISFACTORY MANNER FOR THE
HONEY RECEIVED." AMT IXI-1 OPENED A SAVINGS ACCOUNT IN THE
COCONUT GROVE BANK IN MAY 1962 IN THE NAME OF MARIANO SANTOS
AND/OR JUAN SANTOS (THE FATHER) WITH HIMSELF AS TRUSTEEM
DEPOSITS OF $225.00 PER MONTH WERE MADE TO THIS ACCOUNT FROM MAY
1962 UNT IL SEPTEMBER 1966 WHEN ALL DEPOSITS TO TRUSTEE ACCOUNT S
WERE ORDERED STOPPED BY JMWAVE. TOTAL PAYMENT TO THIS ACCOUNT WAS
$11,925.00 AND WITH THE EARNED INTEREST OF $1,928.57 THE ACCOUNT
PALLANCE AS OF JULY 23, 1968 WAS $13,905.57.
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGT-22352 PAGE ONE

14-00000

RET TELEPOUCH UF GT 22352 PAGE TWO

C. THE FIRST INFORMATION RECEIVED THAT MARIANO'S
MOTHER MIGHT ARRIVE IN THE IINITED STATES HAS COPY CA
LETTER DATED 14 SEPTEMBER 1967 AND SENT TO MARIANO'S BROTHER
RENE SATOS FROM J.A. MORALES, THE PRESIDENT OF THE 2586
ASSAULT BRIGADE ASSOCIATION. RENE SANTOS LIVES IN HACKENSACK,
N.J. THIS LETTER ACKNOWLEDGED RECEIPT OF A LETTER FROM RENE
REQUEST ING THAT ALL CHECKS FOR HIS NOTHER, CLARA MOLINA,
NOW BEING SENT TO CARLOS FERNANDEZ CAMPOS BE SUSPENDED AND
THAT HIS NOTHER WOULD "WITHIN SEVERAL MONTHS" BE ARRIVING
IN THE UNITED STATES. MORALES LETTER ADVISED RENE TO WRITE
TO THE ANTIKI-I ADDRESS, WHICH HE PROVIDED AND MAKE THE SAME
REQUEST. HE FURTHER ADVISED RENE THAT HE SHOULD PROVIDE THE
AMT IKI-1 ADDRESS ADD IT IONAL BIO DATA ON MARIANO AND HIS MOT HER
AND FATHER.

D. ANTIKI-1 RECEIVED A LETTER DATED 19 SEPTEMBER
1967 FROM RENE SANTOS STATING WHO HE WAS AND THAT HIS MOTHER
CLARA MOLINA WOULD "WITHIN SEVERAL MONTHS". BE ARRIVING IN
THE UNITED STATES VIA SPAIN. ENCLOSED WITH THE LETTER WAS A
COPY OF MORALES LETTER (C ABOVE), MARIANO'S BIRTH CERT IF ICAT E
AND PICTURE.
E. ANTIKI-I REPLIED AT JMWAVE'S REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGING
RECIEPT OF RENE'S LETTER AND ENCLOSURES AND ADVISED RENE THAT
PAYMENTS TO THE TRUSTEE, CARLOS FERNANDEZ CAMPOS, HAD BEEN
TERMINATED (NO DATE GIVEN) AND THAT MRS. CLARA MOLINA CABRERA
SHOULD NOT IFY HIS OFFICE BY MAIL UPON HER ARRIVAL IN THE U.S.
F. AMT IKI-I RECEIVED A LETTER FROM MRS. CLARA MOLINA
CABRERA DATED 2 JUNE 1968 STAT ING THAT SHE WAS NOW IN THE
U.S. AND DESIRES TO DISCUSS MARIANOS CASE.
G. AMT IKI-1 REPLIED ASKING MRS. CLARA MOLINA TO
FORWARD ANY DOCUMENTS THAT SHE MIGHT HAVE TO IDENTIFY HER AS
THE MOTHER OF MARIANO SANTOS MOLINA. MRS. MOLINA REPLIED IN
A LETTER DATED 4 JULY 1968 ENCLOSING HER BIRTH CERTIFICATE,
SECRE I TELEPOUCH UFGT 22352 PAGE TWO

14-00000
S
1
:

ET TELEPOUCH UFGT 22352 PAGE THREE
PHOTOGRAPH AND PASSPORT NUMBER. MRS. MOLINA ALSO INFORMED
AMT.IKI-I THAT HER HUSBAND AND THE FATHER OF MARIANO SANTOS
MOLINA HAD DIED 25 FEBRUARY 1962.
2. AMI IKI-1 ON 23 JULY 1968 COMPLETED A BREAKDOWN OF
THE ACCOUNT SHOWING THE AMOUNT IN THE BANK WHICH IS SHOUN
IN PARAGRAPH I BABOVE, THE AMOUNT PAID TO THE ORIGINAL TRUSTEE
WHICH IS $2,925.00 AND THE AMOUNT DUE MRS. CLARA MOLINA.
SINCE MRS. MOLINA'S HUSBAND DIED PRIOR TO AMT IKI-1 TAKING
OVER AS TRUSTEE, THE PAYMENTS DURING AMT IKI-I'S TRUSTEESHIP
SHOULD HAVE BEEN AT THE RATE OF $175.00 PER MONTH INSTEAD OF
THE $225.08. MAY 1962 THROUGH JULY 1968 (75 MONTHS) AT
$175.00 PER MONTH AMOUNTS TO $ 13,125.00 AND AS NOTED IN
PARAGRAPH I B ABOVE THE ACCOUNT CONTAINS $13,985.57.
3. JMWAVE PLANS TO HAVE AMT IKI-1 WITHDRAW THIS ACCOUNT
AND PURCHASE A CASHIER'S CHECK FOR MRS. MOLINA FOR THE TOTAL
AMOUNT DUE ($13,125.00) AND PASS THE BALANCE OF $780.57.TO
THE JMWAVE FINANCE OFFICER. FOLLOWING THIS AND BEGINNING
WITH THE AUGUST 1968 PAYMENT AMIKI-I WILL FORWARD A CHECK
FOR $175.00 EACH MONTH TO MRS. CLARA MOLINA IN THE SAME
MANNER AS OTHER BRIGADE DEPENDENTS. JMWAVE PLANS TO HAVE
ANT IK 1-1 PROVIDE MRS. MOLINA WITH THE NAME OF THE OR IG INAL
TRUSTEE AND THE AMOUNT PAID TO HIM WITH REGRETS THAT HE CANNOT
ASSIST HER IN THIS MATTER. WE ALSO PALN TO HAVE ANT IX-1
EXPLAIN THE METHOD OF COMPUTING THE $13,125.00 TOTAL ($175.00
PER MONTH FOR 75 MONTHS). WE DO NOT PLAN TO RAISE THE PO INT
OF EARNED INTEREST. WE BELIEVE THAT WOFIRM WOULD HAVE
COMPLETELY FULFILLED ITS OBLIGATION TO MRS. MOLINA BY THE
ABOVE PAYMENT PLUS HER MONTHLY PAYMENTS TO FOLLOW. PLEASE
CONCUR IN THIS PARAGRAPH BY CABLE.
FREDERICK J. INGHURST
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGT-22352 PAGE THREE
:
..

14-00000
..
RET TELEPOUCH UFGI -22352 PAGE FOUR
DISTRIBUTION
VIA TELEPOUCH
1- CHIEF/VHD
1 - M/COG
SECRE I TELEPOUCH UFGT-22352 PAGE FOUR
BT
:

14-00000

OPIC:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE.
LVITI
EXTI
ACOG/SA
4163/1325
12 JULY 68
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES. 29

SECRET

BOUTING AND/OR INITIALS JEBY
AMPUP
DY: 24

CONF:
WilffeG-8
RID COPY INFO
PER:
[ X] DESTROY[ ] RETURN TO
BRANCH[ ] FILE RID[ ]
[ ] NO INDEX [ ] FILE IN CS FILE NO. NANCYE
VE [ ] OC-2 FI/1TRI/AN, MPS/BG-2, CCS-2,CSP

(classification)
SECRET

TO: JMWAVE INFO JMCOBRA
(date and time fred)

(elite)

(reference number)
CITE DIRECTOR: (15727
12 16 162 JUL 68

TYPIC AMBUD MHMUTUAL

REF: JMWAVE 3051 (IN 47521)*

PROPOSED GERRITY TRIP TEMPORARILY DELAYED. WILL ADVISE
FIRM DATE.

2

WH/COG Comment:

END OF MESSAGE

*Re proposed trip Mr. Marvin Evans to
JMWAVE
to review AMTIKI records of AMBUD dependency
cases.

OGC Mr. Morrisey (telecon)

L
William V. Broe
C/WHD
RELEALING OFFICER

COORDINATING OF c

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15 C
David A. Phillips
C/WH/COG

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICES
2
(pics)

