104-10215-10153

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING

TO
Deputy Chief, WH/SA
ACTION REQUIRED
ACTION
X
INFO
XX
FROM
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
SUBJECT
TYPIC/Operational/AMLILAC
Transmittal of Memorandum of Oral Commitment
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI
REFERENCE
:
None.

Transmitted herewith for Headquarters information and
files are three copies of a Memorandum of Oral Commitment for
Subject, 201-332676. H-56

Attachment:
3 cys, MOC H/W
3 cys, IDENS U/S/C
SCA cat'd
Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Addressee w/att A

EROUT
201-332676
DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED
25 Aug 64
SEP 2 1964
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-17558
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
COPY
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-332676

TO
: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM
: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Engagement of Identity A 201-332676

1. Term and Project Charge. The Subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TIPEC and is to be charged against Fil cost center. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 August 1964 and it shall continue until termination by either party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval, to utilize subject a/a to interested, has been obtained. POA reinstated 26 June 1964 per UFGW 3997

3. Citizenship. The Subject is a foreign national and was born on 6 May 1939 at Pinar del Rio, Cuba and resides at Identity B

4. Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, Subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $ 163.01 per month. Such payments to be made following completion of satis- factory service.

5. Taxes. Subject will/XXXXXXX be obligated to pay U.S. income, tal. Taxes will/xxxxxxxx deducted from the above stated paid compensation. Subject is/xxxxxx eligible for Social Security. Identity C Subject is single and has a total of 2 dependents other than himself. Subject's dependents arc/******* residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence. The Subject xxxx/will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence.

7. Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8. Other Commitments,

a. In case of capture, 50% salary until released or for two years, whichever is less.

b. In case of death, four months salary to dependents.

c. In case of wounds, medical care.

d. With prior approval of COS, a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and results which were achieved but will not exceed $100 per single bonus payment.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the Subject.

SIGNED:
Field Contracting Officer

REVIEWED: REVIEWED:
Contract Approving Officer

att #I to IFGA.17558 201-332

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:
UFGA-17558, 25 August 1964

IDENTITY A: Juan F. BLANCO Hernandez

IDENTITY B: 6831 SW 6 Street, Miami, Florida

IDENTITY C: SS #265-74-1626

SECRET

SCA
CS COPY
att #2 to UFGA 17.558 201-332676
