14-00000
104-10177-10219
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED IT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MATLACK, DIEROTHE K. (MRS)
 LEASE DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: Army Document (3rd Agency)

DATE DATE SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
3.A078 BETH LICHTENFELS.
2.AuG78 SAME SORRELL, BRADY
2962 SAME JAMES R. KELLY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
___

14-00000
RESCRO MATERIAL
DUE DATE

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES,
RM GA-50, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 4598
DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FORM
FORM 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

6 S. Corbet To Requester:
OG/EFR Please return this reference
to IP/ARD/PSU immediately after
use.
___

RECORDS CENTER
JOB NO. 78-1939
SPACE NO. 325583

FILE NO. Mach -CIA-PRO-384
DOCUMENT
FOLDER NO. 54
BOX NO. 3

E2 IMPDET CL BY: 062147
RETURN TO: CA-50 INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
IP/ARD/PSU —SECRET - CONFIDENTIAL USE ONLY

___
14-00000
-E1-
CHILE
Apr., 1952

BRIEFS
WORKERS HOUSING--An executive message to the Chamber of Deputies
asks for the authorization of 120 million pesos for the construction of
cheap, housing for workers employed by the city of Santiago. The bill will
be considered soon by the proper committee. (CE1180 Santiago,
Apr. 4, 1952, 0030 GMT--R)

TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATION--The Finance Ministry has dispatched the decree
putting 94 million pesos at the disposal of the national transport
authority for the acquisition of trolley buses and supplies to the
comptroller's office. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

TEACHERS' STRIKE--At the meeting of striking teachers held Apr. 3 it was
decided to adopt the following procedural points: 1--To continue the
strike indefinitely; 2--to demand that salaries be fixed at a rate equal
to that of the minimum paid to private employees, plus 20 percent; 3--to
protest the refusal of two Deputies to give their votes to the draft of a
bill to readjust the earnings of public officials, which also provides that
exonerated Communist professors will be reinstated; 4--to protest an anti-
strike editorial published in EL MERCURIO; 5--to meet on Apr. 4 at the
University of Chile to determine the course to follow. (CE1174 Santiago,
Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

COPPER SITUATION--The Minister of Labor has declared that as long as the
Finance Ministry does not solve the problem of exchange, the nitrate dispute
cannot be solved. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

FOREIGN MINISTRY--Juan (Marin) has been authorized to continue in his post
as Chilean Charge d'Affairs in India, and Juan Gusmen Cruchaga, in his
important Foreign Ministry assignment. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952,
0100 GMT--R)

EMIGRATION PLAN--The Sociedad Italiana plans to invest 100 million pesos
for the purpose of cultivating and exploiting sugar beet crops in southern
Chile with colonies of Italian immigrants. The society is collaborating
with the Development Corporation and the Agricultural Settlement Food and
will plant 16,000 hectares in the Province of Cautin for the purpose.
(CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0300 GMT--R)
___
14-00000
RESTRICTED
- E3-
CHILE
Mar. 18, 1952

PRESS FREEDOM COMMITTEE--the President will form a committee for the purpose
of studying laws which include repressive measures against the freedom of the
press, on Mar. 18 at La Moneda. Press representatives are Emilio Pacul,
Juan Honorato, and Mario Vergara. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952,
2322 GMT--R)

COAL SITUATION--Reports from the coal region state that the situation is
normal and that the workers have decided to work with provincial authorities
in trying to reach an agreement after the failure of the Santiago talks.
Metallurgical workers at the Lota and Coronel mines have returned to work
in accordance with union directives. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952,
2325 GMT--R)

CHAMBER PRESIDENTIAL LINE-UP--Since the Chamber of Deputies will meet
Mar. 18 to open the special session which will extend to May 21, it is
interesting to note the position and strength of its members in regard to
the roster of Presidential aspirants: Favoring Arturo Matte Larrain are
33 Liberals, 21 Conservative-Traditionalists, 5 Agrarian Laborites,
2 Liberal-Progressives, and one Independent Democrat, or a total of 63.
Favoring Pedro Enrique Alfonso are 42 Radicals, 9 Conservatives and 5
Democrats: total, 56. Carlos Ibanez del Campo: 9 Agrarian Laborites,
5 Socialists, one People's Democrat, and 2 Independent Conservatives;
total, 17. Salvador Allende: 6 Socialists and one National Front; total,
7. The only unknown positions and numbers are those of the National
Falangists, and the Independent Deputy, Melendez Anfruns. (Santiago,
EL TARAPACA, Mar. 16, 1952, 2350 GMT--R)

GATH Y CHAVEZ CLOSING--Gath y Chavez has announced a closing-out of its
entire stock of merchandise, thus terminating the career of one of
Santiago's best-known business houses. The company closed its doors last
Christmas as a result of a strike declared by its personnel. (Santiago,
AFP, Mar. 15, 1952, 0000 GMT--R)

IMMIGRATION PROGRAM--The bill drafted by the Government Immigration
Committee, presided over by Under Secretary of the Interior Grès, is
designed to legislate all matters connected with the immigration of
foreigners. The plan proposes the creation of an immigration department
or office which will be under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and which will be in charge of orienting all immigrants arriving
in Chile. Also under consideration is the plan to exempt all immigrants
from paying taxes for a period of 5 years. This would include customs
duty on their property and machinery as well as income tax. (Santiago,
EL TARAPACA, Mar. 14, 1952, 2326 GMT--R)
___
14-00000
RESTRICTED
-E4-
CHILE
Mar. 18, 1952

NAVAL APPOINTMENTS--With the retirement of Vice Admirals Carlos Torres
Hevia, Incauel Holger, and Horacio de la Fuente, the Navy will reportedly
make some important promotions. Besides raising Naval Capt. Danilo Basi
to the rank of Rear Admiral, and raising Enrique Lagreze and Francisco
Oyarzun to naval captains, Victor Oelckers has been made rear admiral,
and Alberto (Cass) Wigand, Juan Mercado Munoz, and Alfred Lopez have
been made naval captains. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952,
2310 GMT-R)

FISHING STRIKE--Valparaiso fisherman have joined the Talcahuano fishermen
who declared a strike to protest against the Purse Seine fishing enter-
prises. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2320 GMT--R)

U.S. PASTOR--Protestant U.S. Pastor Erickson, whose activities have
been attacked in many sectors where he has held public religious meetings,
will soon go to Santiago where he will hold meetings in the Caupolican
Theater. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2335 GMT--R)

MINING TAX--The Government has imposed a one and one-half percent tax on
sales made by "small" mining companies. All companies capitalized at
less than 5 million pesos fall under this category. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA,
Mar. 15, 1952, 2340 GMT--R)

HOUSING CONSTRUCTION--From the total of 200 million pesos allotted for
public housing by the Ministry of Public Works, 20 million will go to
Iquique and Santiago respectively, 25 million each to Arica and Antofagasta,
30 million to Coquimno, 40 million to Valparaiso, and 10 million each
to Concepcion, Cautin, Magallanes, and Llanquihue Provinces. (Santiago,
EL TARAPACA, Mar. 13, 1952, 2334 GMT--R)

HYDROELECTRIC PLANT--Guillermo Moore, manager of the Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad has announced that a new central hydroelectric plant will
shortly be constructed on Rio Rapel and three more will be constructed
in the southern zone. (Santiago /Official/, Diplomatic, Mar. 14, 1952,
1553 GMT--R)

CHILEAN SWEDISH TRADE--The Minister of Foreign Affairs received the
Swedish Emisier who proposed negotiations for the drafting of a
commercial and cultural treaty. This treaty is designed to increase
the exchange of Swedish-manufactured products and machinery for Chilean
Agricultural products and minerals. (Santiago /Official/, Diplomatic,
Mar. 14, 1952, 1555 GMT--R)
___

14-00000
Form No. 13-8
(9-2-48)

FRANKFURT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECURITY INFORMATION ROUTINE

To 00/CPC/OSO 27 DEC 51

ACTIONS 00/CB IN 49477

AD/SO (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), FDM (5-6), OPC (7-8-9-10)/ S/C (11-12-13) DOP (11)

Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Para. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5

FRAN 3173

TO: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT) INFO: KARLF CITE: FRAN (CEUDEN)
 TRANG

PIPELINE

REUR 446 (OUT 95394)

REF FASSED MOFFETT WHO HAS BEEN EXPLORING WITH CANADIANS. THEY
DON'T SEEM INTERESTED. ONLY LIKELY BUYER BELIEVED TO BE ANOTHER 3.A.
COUNTRY SCH AS ARGENTINA BOTH WHOM WE HAVE NO CONTACTS. WE CERTAINLY
NOT ABLE CO ANYTHING HERE WHICH CAN'T BE VORE EFFECTIVELY DONE WESTERN
HEMISPHERE WITHOUT EXPENSE MOVING FAMILY BACK TO GERMANY AND THEN ON
OUT AGAIN.

TAK072 27 DEC 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
___

14-00000
Furto No. 38-6
(1 Dec47)
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET PAGE NO.

SECURITY INFORMATION ROUTINE
ERANKFURT
To: 00/OPC/OSO FROM: 20 DEC 51
CONFIRMATION: 00/CB OUT 95394
AD/SC (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), ), FDM (5-6),
INFORMATION: OPC (7-8-9-10), WHO (11), S/C (12-13-14), OOP (15)

NR. 4446
Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pass 51 (1).60.4 AR-388-5

TO: FRANKFURT (CRUDEN) INFO: FRANFG CITE: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT!

PIPELINE

JANNEY OF ZACABIN SAYS HE GAVE ROBINOW BACKGROUND ON AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEER AMONG CHILEAN DISPOSAL GROUP AND ROBINOW PROMISED EXPLORE
POSSIBILITY GETTING HAI INTO CANADA THROUGH GERMAN CONTACTS. ZACABIN
ANXIOUS TO FINISH CHILEAN DISPOSAL OPERATION 15 JANUARY. THIS ONE WAL
REFUSE'S WORK AT ANYTHING EXCEPT AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING, FOR WHICH JO
NOT AVAILABLE CHILE. ADVISE SOONEST WHAT ROBINOW HAS DONE OR WHAT HE
CAN DO. ZACABIN THINKING OF MOVING DEFECTOR BACK TO GERMANY, WHERE THE
MIGHT LAND IN YOUR LAP.

RELEASING OFFICER 21-7-1

02522 21 DEC 51 ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHRES ICATING OFFICER
TOD:
SECRET Cors No.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
___

14-00000
Form No. 33-5
(Dec. 1947)
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

To: SATITIAGO ROUTINE

SPECIAL OPERATIONS 30 AUG 51

FROM: WED (1-2) INT 703

CONFIRMATION: IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), FDS (9),

INFORMATION: FDM (10), S/C. (11-12-13)

Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 604 AR-SD-S

WASH 06075

TO: SAGOF CITE: PASHE

RE: SAGO 305 (IN 21937), WASH 04807 (OUT 71940)

HEADQUARTERS WAS UNABLE TO STOP DEPARTURE OF SUBJECT,
A POLE, WHO LEFT BY PLANE FOR CHILE ON 21 AUGUST, AS OUR
INTERAGENCY DEFECTOR COMITTEE WAS NOT CONSULTED. FULLNESS
SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT WE NOT INVOLVED IN THIS CASE. SUBJECT
IS NOT A DEFECTOR THEN IDCOP NO. 1 REGULATIONS. THEREFORE
YOU SHOULD ASSURE NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIM UNLESS HE BECOMES
INVOLVED WITH OTHER DEFECTORS IN WHICH CASE IT WOULD PROBABLY
BE TO OUR INTEREST AND INTEREST OF PROGRAM. IZ TO BE ADVISED
BY DA THAT RESPONSIBILITY IS HIS.

LGRESHAM. HJ M H.J. MCKELLOPS
RELEASING OFFICIE DS ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

129292 30 AUG 51 SECRET
Corr No
311
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
___

14-00000
SECRET

28 August 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, CIA Defector Committee

FROM OSO Representative, CIA Defector Committee

SUBJECT Army Disposal Action on Defector to Chile

1. On 17 August 1951, CIA received a priority cable (IN 21787)
from Santiago advising that the Chilean Consul in Frankfurt, Germany,
had requested authority from his Foreign Office to issue an "ordinary
visa" to Boroslaw Borowies, a Russian defector (actually a Polish defector),
stating that American Intelligence had requested the visa on the
same basis as in the case of earlier defectors. Santiago indicated that
Chilean officials did not look on this with favor.

2. On 17 August the undersigned was able to ascertain that
Borowies had defected to the 66th Detachment, CIC, in Germany in late
May 1951 and since that time had been held in ECIC.

3. On 17 August CIA queried German Station (OUT 71605) as to why
Borowies had not been placed in the DRC and requested that Borowies be
sent to Chile.

4. On 17 August 1951, the undersigned telephoned Mrs. Dorothy
Matlack, G2, and requested her to have a cable sent to Germany by G-2
forbidding the disposal of Borowies to Chile. The undersigned provided
Mrs. Matlack with the serial number of the pertinent CIC memo. Mrs. Mat-
lack stated that she would do everything possible to have this cable sent
even if it required her to come in the next day, which was Saturday.

5. On 20 August CIA advised Santiago (OUT 71940) that it had no
knowledge regarding this disposal action and was opposed to any more
disposal actions to Chile at this time.

6. On 22 August, CIA received a reply from Germany (IN 22176)
stating that this Borowies matter was entirely within the province of
CIC and under the circumstances it was impossible for CIA in Germany
to have had the body sent to the UGO. It was also stated that ID EUCOM
was arranging for departure on 21 August 1951. The undersigned imme-
diately advised Mrs. Matlack of this ETD and she stated that she was
doing all she could to have a priority cable sent at once.

7. On 22 August about 1500 hours, Mrs. Matlack telephoned the
undersigned and stated that G-2 did not have a copy of the referenced
CIC memo. She requested the undersigned to take over to the Pentagon
immediately in order to exhibit the CIA copy of the CIA memorandum, as
otherwise G2 would not send out the desired cable to CIC, Germany.
This the under signed did and such a cable was eventually sent out
priority by G-2 to Germany (IN W 23393).

SECRET
___

14-00000
SECRET
- 2 -

8. On 27 August 1951, CIA received word from Germany (IN 23898)
that on 21 August Borowies had left by plane for Chile and would
apparently require no assistance there since he had his own funds.

Walter C. Janney

SECRET
___

14-00000

Form No. 35-8
Αρ 120

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET ALL WHD
FROM: KARLSHE PAGE NO.

POUTINE
To: SPECIAL OPERATIONS 25 AUGUST 51

ACTION: FDM (1-2-3) IN 23.99

NFORMATION: 18 (4-5),AD/SO (1),OPS (7),PLANS (3),5/3 (9-10-11),(12)
STC (13)
Parsphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Para I (1) ARAR.39

KARL 3118
TO: WASHF INFO: HEIDF, UNIF CITE: KARLF

RE: KARL 3082, (IN 22716)

1. 10 EUCON ADVISES REQUEST TO RICCIO FOR BOROVICZ DISPOSAL
CHILE MADE BY ECIC.

2. 2000ICZ LEFT 21 AUGUST FOR CHILE BY PLANE. SAS OWN FUNDS
APPARENTLY REQUIRING NO US HELP IN SETTLEMENT CHILE.

3. ID EUCOM RECEIVED DA CASH CA LE AMOUNTING TO REPRIVAND FOR
HADLING BOROWICZ ENIGRATION WITHOUT COORDINATION, ALSO POINTING
OUT ZACABAL NOT CO SULTED.

10512 25 AUG 51
SECRET
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
___

14-00000
FORM No-
 (1-47)
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET PAGE NO.

SANTIAGO ROUTINE
To:

SPECIAL OPERATIONS 23 AUG 51

FROM: WD (1-2) OUT 72590

CONFIRMATIONI (815), AD/SO (5), PLANS (6), FOS (7), OPS CDP 9),
INFORMATION S/C110-11-12), OPG (13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20--11

Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60.4 AR-380-3

10: SACOF
CITE: WASHF

RE: SACO 503 (IN 20501) PARA 2A

DEPORTATION OF SUBJECT NO INTEREST OR RESPONSIBILITY OF
HEADQUART SAS OR YOUR STATION AND WE NOT WILLING ASSUME ODA IGATION
OR EXPENSE THIS CONNECTION. SUCH DECISION STRICTLY UP TO FULLNESS.

V.L. CRED
BELEASING OFFICE
HUNGK

ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET J. CELLO'S
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Cort No.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
TOD: 27 25 200 51
___

14-00000
FORM.
OCT 13-5

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
Faom: HEIDELBERG
To: DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
ACTION:
SECRET
PAGE No
PRIORITY
22 AUG 51.
IN 23393
(3), STC (4), FDI (5), FDS (6),
(1) (2), OPS (3)
IPORMATIONID (7), RC (s), 3/6 (c)

Handle as TOP SECRET Correspondence per Pare. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5

NR: DA 99529
TO: CINCEUR HEIDELBERG GERMANY
FOR DI FROM G2.

SUBJECT IS BOGUSLABOROTEZ, INFO HERE THAT CHILEA!!
CONSUL RICCIO, FRALKFORT ROSTED CHILEAN FON OFFICE ISSUE-
ORDINARY VISA TO SUBJECT AS OF 31 JULY, STATED AMER INTEL
ROSTED VISA ON SANE BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS, CAS ALLEGES
THAT THEY LOT NOTIFIED OF DOROLEZ DEFECTION ALTHOUGH HE
IN CUSTODY 66 CIC DET SINCE 26 MAY 51. ROST INFO REF ROLE
OF 66 CIC DET IN SUBJECTS DEFECTION AND FUPTHER DATA AS. TO
THY IDC OPN PROCEDURE NR 1 CAS NOT FOLLOWED., ROST SUBJECT.
DE NOT RESETTLED WITHOUT CONCURRENCE OF IDC GERMANY ALSO
FOST THAT SUBJECT NOT BE RESETTLED IN CHILE IN VIEW OF
DIFFICULTIES NOT HAVING WITH PLEV DEFECTORS SETTLED THERE,

ORIGIN: G2
LISTR: 02(CIA)
DA 99529 (AUC51) DTG: 2218202

23382 25 AUG 51 SECRET
TOX: Corr No
3
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COFY OF THIS MESSAGE
___

14-00000
Form No. 35-5
Apr
COMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ENCY

SECRET

PACE NO:

FROM: KARLSRUHE ROUTINE

To: SPECIAL OPERATIONS 21 AHAUST 51

ACTION: FOM (1-2-3) 122716

INFORMATION: (1-5),AD/SO-(6), OPS (7) PLANS (8), 5/6 (9-10-11), CUP (12)
STC (13)

Karaphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5
KARL 3082

TO: WASHF CITE: KARLF

RE: ASH 014508 (CUT 71605)

1. LATE JLY CIC ADVISED THEY THROUSH WITH CEBRIEFING BOROWICZ
WHO WILL EE TREATED AS DISPOSAL CASE FAC 10 ANG ON AND ASKETHER
WE INTERESTED IN HIF NCE ADVISED NOT INTERESTED; BOB ADVISED INTER-
ESTED AND ASKED OB INTERVIEW HID, WALICH NOB CID 9 AUG (REPORT IN GWA
6602 EN ROUTE MUNI TO KARL AND WASH, INDICATES HE OF NO FURTHER
INTEREST SINCE CIC FULLY DEBRIEFED AND ID EUCO WAS ARRANGING FIS EN-
GRATION WITH ETD 21 AUG).

2. BOB INTEREST SIMPLY DUE TO ORIGINAL CIC INDICATIONS SINCE POB
PRIMARY BASE FOR DISPATCH SINGLETONS TO POLAND WHILE MOB TRIES SPEC-
TALIZE IN GROUP OPS.

3. PLS REALIZE WE HAD NOTHING TO DO ITH S-EXCEPT SINGLE INTER-
VIEW WHICH PRODUCED NO OPS INTEREST IN HIS RE DRC: IN CIRCUMSTANCES
THIS WAS NOT OUR CASE TO ROUTE TO DRC OR ELSEWHERE; ALSO, IT IS NOT
SOP FOR PERSONS OF B'S LEVEL AND NATIONALITY TO GO DRC.

IL. RF CHILEAN VISA REQUEST: WE INVESTIGATING AND WILL PEPORT
FACTS SOON..

13258 21 ALG 51 SECRET Corr No
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
___
14-00000
Rora No ー

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SANTIAGO
PACE NO
To ROUTINE

SPECIAL OPERATIONS: 22 AUG 51

Fром: (1-2) OUT 7194

CONFIRMATION: IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), S/C (9-10-11),
INFORMATION: FDS (12)

Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 31 (1) 60.4 AR-380-5

WASH 24597

TO: SAGOF CITE: W:SHF

RE: SAGO 305 (IN 21787)

THIS AGENCY HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL
DEFECTOR PRIOR RECEIPT SAGO 305. MATTER BEING CHECKED AND YOU
WILL BE INFORMED OF CIRCUMSTANCES, BUT HEADQUARTERS WILL OPPOSE
SENDING MORE DISPOSAL CASES TO CHILE AT THIS TIME.

V.L. GRESHAN. HJC H.J. MCKELLOPS
BALLARING OFTRA
ORIGINGTUNG AND CORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Corr No
TOD: 17382 23 100 51 SECRET 31-3

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
___

14-00000
Porta Nis 13-6
(DC INT)
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET
PAGE No.

KARLSRUHE ROUTINE
To:

SPECIAL OPERATIONS 17 AUC 51

FROM: FO (1-2) OUT 71605

CONFIRMATION: 18 (3-4) ADSO (5) OPS (6) PLANS (7) S/C (9-10-11)

-INFORMATION: DDP (12), STC (13)

Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-389-5

WASH 04608

TO: KARLF CITE: WASHF

RE: KARL 2945 (IN 18811)

1. SANTIAGO ADVISES CHILEAN FONOF RECEIVED DISPATCH
DATED 31 JULY FROM ITS FRAN CONSUL, RICCIO PEQUESTING
AUTHORITY ISSUE "ORDINARY VISA" TO SUBJECT STATED AMERICAN
INTELL REQUESTED VISA ON SAME BASIS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. IN VIEW COMPLICATIONS CHILEAN DEFECTOR SITUATION
NO DISPOSOL OP TO CENTRAL OR SCUTH AMERICA TO BE INITIATED
WITHOUT PRIOR HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL. PILS ADVISE WHO
INITIATED REQUEST PARA 1 AND HOLD UP ACTION THIS CASE
PENDING INSTRUCTIONS FROM HQ.

3. ADVISE(A) WHY SUBJECT WAS NOT TURNED OVER TO
DRC FOR DEBRIEFING PER CURRENT OPERATING, PROCEDURES?

(B) SUBJECT'S PRESENT STATUS, LOCATION.

(C) CLARIFICATION BOS INTEREST SUBJECT SUBSEQUENT
MOB ACTION.

4. RE MGSA 4088. NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ROTNICK
CR TEPLITZ-SCUBLITSKY. ASSUME CIC FOLLOWING UP CE ASPECTS
AND ACTIVITIES WEST GERMANY.

H. CUNNINGHAN

BELEASING OFTICLE
CL.022 18 AUG 51 VCH
T GRILINATING AND CORDINATE COFFINS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

Corr No.
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
TOD:

___
14-00000
Form No.5
Apr
SANTIAGO
FROM:
To:

ACTONS:
CRITY
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
SECRET
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
WHD (1-2)
PACE NO.

15 AUG 51
1787

AD/SO (3), OPS (1), PLANS (5), STC (6), FDS (7)
INFORMATION:
S400 305.
S/C (8-9-10), DDP (11) 0-270064

Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pers. 51 (1) 604 AR-380-5

TO: VASHE
CIC HP 66 Ditel
Lat Cof. Daviint
Huntoon
CITE: SAGOF

1. FULLNESS. ADVISED CHILEAN FOREIGN OFFICE RECEIVED
DISPATCH FROM ITS FRANKFURT CONSUL, RICCIO, DATED 31 JULY 31,
RECUESTING LUTHORITY ISSPE "ORDINARY VISAR TO VAURIOY BOROutro
G
BO/USLAV, RUSSIAN DEFECTOR. STATED AMERICAN, INTELLIGENCE REQUESTED
VISA EN SANE BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. FULLNESS OPIVED ENOUGH DIFFICULTY EXISTED OVER
PRESENT DEFECTORS WITHOUT ADDING THERETO, HE HAS EEEN ASKED TO
HOLD MATTER ABEYANCE HOS COMMENTS.

3. SACO FECOMNENDS NO NEW DEFECTORS CHILE UNTIL
PRESENT PROBLERS RESOLVED AND FULLNESS ASSURED THAT UNDESIRABLES BE
RECALLED, BELIEVE DEFECTORS 47 AND 26 MOST SERIOUS
THOUGH INVESTI-
G. TION UNCOMPLETED TO DATE. DEFECTORS 36 AND 42 40 SELIEVED
REPONCILABLE. RECOMMEND FRANKFURT AUTHORITIES HANDLE SOCH WTTERS
THROUGH HOS AND THIS STATION.
SECRET
15192 16 40G 51
Cort No.
IT 13 FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGS
___
14-00000

TCS-690 dtd 24 Aug 49

Ref: TCS-IF-644-

Industrial expansion of last few years in Chile
reveals shortages skilled welders, automotive mechanics, farm
machinery technicians and mechanics, factory mechanics, experienced
lathe operaters, die and mould workers, ceramics technicians--skilled.
labor and technicians in almost every industry in the country.
2
___

14-00000

OSC Registry
15-6-4
-R
DATE
AESTENT OF DOCLONENT BEING CROSS FILED
SUBJECT
Disposal Questionnaire

CERTINENT INFORMATIO
CROSS REFERENCE FORM
COCES FILE BY
17 Feb 1949 Lois Setth
29 November 195

Pencilled in file No. 31-7-4-1

FILE THIS FORM FILE 10.
CIA Pro
1334
Folder 54
FORM NO.
DEC 1252 57-38 Kasn

___

14-00000

Dept. of Army document
12. August 1955.
2

Hemo for: Dir, CIA, FM: Collection Dir,
Sublect: Interagency Defects. Comme Hee
Class: Secret

reica to 62-CDOA

THIRD AGENCY
