14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
WIROGUE
201- 233477
VOL. I

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
RECEIVED RETURNED
27 JULY DAN HALOWAY
Dam Hardwary
2) JULY ED LOPEZ

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
G
211LB/WC
14 APR 59 ROUTING

S-E-C-R-E-T
DIRECTOR FROM PARIS
ACTION SR 6 TEMPO TO SR AT 1150, 14 APR) INFO CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, FI/OPS, FI/D 3, EE, WE 4, SC2

APR 1416362-59
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE IN 44422

TO DIR INFO FRAN FROB OTEPARI 5705

RE FROB 3977 (IN 42861)

FRIGANZA PARI AWAITING HOS DECISION AEASPIC.

REQUESTS CONCURRENCE PARA 3 REF. REGRETS NOTE URGENCY BUT IN CIRCUMSTANCES SOMEWHAT DIFFICULT MANAGE WITHOUT EARLY DECISION

WE NEED SAFEHOUSE SUBJ USING AND CONCUR THERE DEFINITE SECURITY AND ARREST RISKS IF HE QUARTERED OTHER THAN IN SAFEHOUSE.

END OF MESSAGE
CS COMMENT: ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR REDWOOD USED.

IF HOS CONCURRED FRAN WOULD MOVE SUBJ TO PBPRIME VIA FRAN. GAVE DETAILS OF CROSSING FRANCO GERMAN BORDER.

(Answered by cable dated 301x lepe 59 expedited OP Immediate
SR/DUB
14 APR 1959
S-E-C-R-E-T
201233477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy

14-00000
GEHEIM

GEHEIMHALTUNGSVERPFLICHTUNG

EINVERSTÄNDNISERKLÄRUNG

1. Ich bin mir der Tatsache bewusst, dass mir kraft des zwischen mir und der Regierung Vereinigten Staaten bestehenden Verhältnisses gewisse Information zukommen wird, dass diese Information selbst oder die aus ihr möglichen Folgerungen der art sein werden, dass ihre rechtswidrige Enthüllung oder unvorsic sichtige Behandlung die Interessen and möglicherweise die Sicherheit der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika ungünstig berühren.

2. Ich werde stets die überragenden Interessen der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten Information anerkennen, die ich infolge von mit Sondervertretern der Regierung gefuhr ten Gesprächen oder von an mich durch Regierungs-Vertreter gestellten Ersuchen diesem Einverständnis gemäss besitze oder erwerbe.

3. Ich gebe mein feierliches Wort, niemals Information oder Kenntnis der oben ange gebenen Art durch Rede, Betragen oder irgendein anderes Mittel bekannt zu machen, zu veröffentlichen oder zu enthüllen, es sei dem, dass ich besondere Ermächtigung dazu erhalt.

4. Ich verpflichte mich niemandem mitzuteilen, dass ich dieses Verhältnis mit der egierung der Vereinigten Staaten eingehe, es sei dem, dass ich besondere Ermächtigung dazu-erhalte.

5. Ich verpflichte mich, uber keinerlei Personen, mit denen ich im Rahmen dieses Verhältnisses mit der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten gesprochen habe, mit Namens nennung oder anderweitig zu sprechen.

Vertreter der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten (Datum).

GEHEIM
Unterschrift Unterschrift

H1 233477

14-00000
GEHEIM

GEHEIMHALTUNGSVERPFLICHTUNG
EINVERSTÄNDNISERKLÄRUNG

1. Ich bin mir der Tatsache bewusst, dass mir kraft des zwischen mir und der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten bestehenden Verhältnisses gewisse Information zukommen wird, and dass diese Information selbst oder die aus ihr möglichen Folgerungen der art sein werden, dass ihre rechtswidrige Echullung oder unvorsichtige Behandlung die Interessen and möglicherweise die die Sicherbeit der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika ungünstig berührea könnte.

2. Ich werde stets die überragenden Interessen der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten an Information anerkennen, die ich infolge von mit it Sondervertretern der Regierung geführ ten Gesprächen oder von an mich durch Regierungs-Vertreter gestellten Ersuchen diesem Einverständnis gemäss besitze oder erwerbe.

3. Ich gebe mein feierliches Wort, niemals Information oder Kenntnis der oben ange gebenen Art durch Rede, Betragen oder irgendein anderes Mittel bekannt zu machen, zu veröffentlichen oder zu enthüllen, es sei denn, dass ich besondere Ermächtigung dazu erhalt.

4. Ich verpflichte mich niemanden mitzuteilen, dass ich dieses Verhältnis mit der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten eingehe, es sei denn, dass ich besondere Ermächtigung dazu erhalte.

5. Ich verpflichte mich, über keinerlei Personen, mit denen ich im Rahmen dieses Verhältnisses mit der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten gesprochen habe, mit Namens nennung oder anderweitig zu sprechen.

Vertreter der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten (Datum).

Unterschrift David. Fiyat
09-1959
GEHEM

14-00000

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting
Officer, hereby contracts with you for the submission of certain information
and related directed services of a confidential nature under the following
terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In consideration of the submission of such infor-
mation and related directed services, you will be paid $500.00 per month
until the activity is completed, a period to approximate 6 6 months. Of Of this
amount:

$450.00 per month to be held in escrow pending your departure to and return from such activity.

$ 50.00 per month to be paid directly to you for personal expenses.

2. Bonus. A bonus to be paid contingent upon the comparative success
of the mission, the amount of the bonus to be determined at a later date by
the Contracting Officer, if the Contractee is chosen to perform the task assigned.

3. Termination. In the event the United States Government terminates
this activity or your connection with same, gooner than originally proposed,
through no fault of yours, you will receive all monies held in escrow and a
satisfactory resettlement will be effected as per prior oral agreement with
the United States Government.

However, if for any reason traceable to you, such as making yourself
unavailable for proper services or training, you fail to consumate the terms
of our understanding, you will not receive monies held in escrow, your salary
will be immédiately terminated and you will be resettled in a place in accordance
with above mentioned prior agreenment without further compensation or assistance.

4. Secrecy Clause. You will be required to keep forever secret the
contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless
released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full know-
ledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution
under the Espionage Laws dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applic-
able laws and regulations.

ACCEPTED:

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY
Contracting Officer
01-233477

14-00000-
485 JM/00//0 ROUTING
ATE
26 MAR 59
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T
TO
DIRECTOR
6
8575
FROM PARIS MAR 27 02382 59
ACTIONSR 6 ROUTINE

INFOCI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS, EE 4, WE 4, OS 2, S/C 2, DPD
IN 37247
TO
DIR FRAN FROB PARI 5504

REDWOOD REDSOX AEACRE AEASPIC SECUR

RE SU JECT LCFLUTTER, AEASPIC OK FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE, MINOR EXAGGERATIONS LIFE HISTORY,

SUBJECT INSTRUCTED RETURN AMBERT, PUT AFFAIRS IN ORDER, RETURN PARI 6 APRIL WHEN ROSTEDT INTERVIEW SCHEDULED. HE WILL BE PREPARED DEPART BUT NO REPORT NO COMMITMENT MADE. (REPEAT)

3.FYI: SUBJECT WITHOUT ANY VALID DOCUMENT. ERGO, TRAVEL SOMEWHAT RISKY AND CAN NOT STAY HOTELS. IF DISAPPEARANCE NOTICED SUBJECT COULD NOT SAFELY STAY CHEZ ANNICK. KEEPING HIM SAFEHOUSE AWKWARD BUT POSSIBLE IF NOT PROLONGED AND ALSO NOT RISKLESS. YOU MAY WISH ALERT HBELECTOR FOR TRIP FRAN IMMEDIATELY AFTER ROSTEDT INTERVIEW.

END OF MESSAGE

27 MAR 1959
S-E-C-R-E-T
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Cepy No

14-00000 ORIGINAL

UNTITOR/DOB DXT 8331
DATE 20 Mar 59
TO PARIS
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF SR 6
FRANKFURT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ROUTING
SECRET
CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, FI/OPS, EE 4, WE 4, 05 2, S/C2 HAR 20 23 21:59

RECID CHOLE SECT

ED PRIORITY DEFERRED ROUTINE

OPERATIONALENTALS IMMEDIATE

TO PARI
INFOPRAN FROB CITE DIR
REDFOOD REDSOX AEACRE 34410)

RE PARI 5469 (IN X XXX SABENA ML. PAUL BELKIN
SABENA
MARCH 28 22.
PLS ARRANGE MEET ASSIST CLEARANCE CUSTOMS OF SPECIAL EQUIPLENT

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT REQUESTED HOS SEID OPERATOR FOR LCFLUTTER OF MEASPIC.

MAR 1959
SECRET
SR/COP SR/COP

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No
2 477

14-00000 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
189ES/JO/JO/ ROUTING
S-E-C-R-E-T 003
DATE 20 MAR 59
TO DIRECTOR
FROM PARIS MAR 20 18027 59
ACTION SR 6 PRIORITY

INFO CI, CI/OPS, CI/CA, FI, FI/OPS, En 4, ve 4, OS 2, S/C 2

IN 34410
TO FRAN FROB PARI 5409
REDWOOD REDSOX AEACRE

RE DIR 17554 (αυτ 83806)•

FRIGANZA CONTACTED AEASPIC IN AMBERT. PURSUADED HIM COME PARIS WITHOUT POLICE PERMISSION. HE ARRIVING EVENING 21 MARCH, CAN REMAIN TWO OR THREE DAYS.

2. HAVE SECURE SITE HOUSE AND TEST AGENT.

3. SEND OPERATOR.

CS COMMENT: CONCERNED LCFLUTTER FOR AEASPIC.
Baul Belkin 15.
lv. 1.4. Jabens 4.
70546
Pop Brus 12:00
Arr Paris 71#633
Le Brurget 1310

Priority cable dispatchel
Thru SRKOP 20 Mar
gove
ETD Paris for Paul B

SRDOB
20 MAR 1959
mp

S-E-C-R-
201233477

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na

14-00000
578 SE/LSB/
ORIG George Fil
UNIT SR/DOZ
EXT
DATE
TO PARIS
FROM DIRECTOR
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T
48331 ROUTING
18 March 1959 DEFERRED 2136259

ROUTINE EC'D CARLE SECT

FRANKFURT PRIORITY

CONF SR 6 INITIALS
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE
INFO CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, CE 4, WE 4, OS 2, S/C 2
FI, FI/OPS
GUTO2206
OUT8306
TO FTOB FRAN CITE DIR 17554

REDWOOD REDSOX AEACRE 17554

REF FROB 3763 (IN 33235)
PARI 5377 (IN 32810)
HOS DELAYED LCFLUTTER OPERATOR TRAVEL SINCE DO NOT

DESIRE LCFLUTTER AEASPIC UNLESS ASSURED CONTROLLED CONDITIONS
AVAILABLE

2. SUGGEST FRIGANZA VISIT AEASPIC AND
A. DETERMINE IF HE CAN COME PARI PRIOR 10 APRIL, OR

B. ASSURE HOS SECURE SITE AVAILABLE VICINITY AMBERT.

3. LCFLUTTER OPERATOR AVAILABLE DEPART ON 1 HOUR NOTICE.

CS COMMENT: CONCERNED PLANNED LOFLUTTER OF AEASPIC.

SR/2H 20 MAR 1959
SR/3/

SR/COP/Filthy 18 MAR 1959
IRD By phone C. Phalen

EE/G

C/SR/DOB
ERIC W. TIMM MICHAEL RAE

SELEASING OFFICE.O COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

S-E-C-R-E-T
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
201-233477

14-00000

March 1959
FRANKFURT
DIRECTOR
CLASSIFIED MF5G
ECRET
DEFERRED

ROUTINE
6
PRIORITY
4, CI, CI/OPS, C1/DA, FI, FI/OPS, EL 4, 5/C 2 OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE
INFO FRAN

DOD REISGK APACER GLUT33332
CITE DIR 17342

PROB 3658 ( 29383)
FROB 3708 30930)
C. PROB 3667 (IN 3082)

SCHEDULINO HEELECTOR CIRCA 20 APRIL FOR ALL SUITABLE CANDIDATES WID SHOULD
UGIT FRAN SUPYICIENT TIME DISCUSSION WITH ROSTEDT AND PROCESSING FOR DEPARTURE.

ROSTEDT WILL DISCUSS MOVEMENT AND NUMBER NECESSARY ESCORT PERSONNEL UPON IWAT MAN 3 APRIL.

UPON COMPLETION ICFLIPTER OF ARASPIC ROSTEDT DESIRES TALK TO HIM IN PARIS TRIGANZA PRIOR NOVEMENT FROM FRANCE.

4. APASPIC, ARSATCHEL AND ARMUTHEO 3 ONLY CANDIDATES DOCUMENTED HOS POR TRAVEL LIKE. AWAITING HIO DATA AND ASSESSMENT AENUTHEO 8.

EED OF MESSAGE

A. RECOMMENDS FRAN C/OS ACCOMPANY AGENTS IN TRAVEL TO U.S.
P. REQUESTS ROSTEDT ARRIVE FRAN EARLY TO ASSIST ASSESSMENTS.
C. ASKS DATE AFFUTMOSO 8 SHOULD ARRIVE FRAN FOR ASSESSMENT.

ASS/DPD fordinated by phone

S-E-C-R-E-T
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. (0) No
41-733477

14-00000
DATE
TO
DIRECT
FROM
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ROUTING
DOB

ACTIONER
FAVEFORT
INFO CI, CIA, FI, Fi/crs, CC, WE 4, OS 2, S/C 2
INFO FRAN PRITY PARI CITE

RE PARI 5317 (11132310)
RE PARA 3: AGREE PRESUMPTION
PLAN RENT CAR, DRIVE TO AEASPIC AND LCFLUTTER
VICINITY AMBERT.
CS CONNENI: END OF MESSAGE
"ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR REDWOOD USED.
ANNICK PRO ED ACASPIC WHO FOR ADMIN REASONS UNABLE MEET FRICA ZA PARIS, 19 MAR OR NEAR FUTURE. ASSURED ADMIN REASONS WAS PROBATION STATUS TRAVEL RESTRICTION.
1.8. MAR 1959
SECRET
201.233477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
138 VCJ/LBIGW
SECRET
DATE
TO
DIRECTOR
FROM
PARLS
ROUTING
DOB
DOB

MAR 17:17252 59
ACTION
SB6
INFO
CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS, EE 4, WE 4, OS 2, S/C 2
PRIORITY

IN 32810
TO
DIR FROB
INFO
FRAN
CITE
PARI 5377
REDWOOD REDSOX AEACRE
RE FROB 3734 (IN 31878)
ANNICK PHONED AEASPIC WHO "FOR ADMINISTRATIVE REASONS" UNABLE MEET FRIGANZA PARIS 19 MARCH OR "IN NEAR FUTURE.

AEASPIC AVAILABLE CHEZ M.J. DASSAUD, 14 RUE ST JOSEPH, AMBERT (PU) DE DOME), TELEPHONE: 136, BETWEEN 0900-1200 AND 1400-1800 HOURS.

ANNICK DID NOT EXPLAIN WHAT MEANT BY "ADMIN. STATUS" BUT PROBABLE THIS PROBATION STATUS TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: REQUESTED PLATIPADIS VISIT ANNICK AND ARRANGEMENTS MEET AEASPIC PARI 19 MARCH.

SECRET
41.233477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
210/ann ROUTING
DATE
159 200
S-E-C-R-E-T 3
TO
DIRECTOR
FROM FRANKFURT MAR 14 16222 59
ACTION SR 6 ROUTINE

INFO CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS, CE 4, WE 4, OS 2, S/C 2
IN 31879
TO (PRIORITY) PARI INFO DIR FRAN CITE FROB 3734

REDWOOD REDSOX AEACRE
NIGHT ACTION

REF A. DIR 16768 (ουτ 81907)
B. FRCB 3707 (IN 30913)
REQUEST PLATIPODIS VISIT ANNICK AT REF B ADDRESS AND MAKE ARRANGEMENTS MEET AEASPIC PARI 19 MAR. ANNICK KNOWS NAME "MIKE". OWING TIME LIMIT BELIEVE THIS ADVISABLE RATHER THAN RISK MISSING AEASPIC BY PELYING ON POST.

2. IF REASONS WHY PLATI PODIS OR ANOTHER CASE OFFICER CANNOT CALL ON ANNICK, REQUEST SEND EXPRESS LETTER ADDRESSED ANNICK TELLING HER M WANTS MEET DAVID AT HER HOUSE 19 MAR. WILL FETCH DAVID, NOT MEET SET TIME AT AGREED RENDEZVOUS.

FRIGANZA WILL TAKE NIGHT TRAIN, ETA PARI AM 19 MAR.

END OF MESSAGE
CS COMMENT: STATED LCFLUTTER OPERATOR PLANNED TRAVEL PARI 19 MAR. ASKED IF AEASPIC WOULD BE AVAILABLE. SUGGESTED FRIGANZA MEET OPERATOR PARI.
S-E-C-R-E-T
S 16 MAR 1950

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na FR MR
41-233477

14-00000
512/0J/BV/α μν
ORIG George Fill
UNIT
EXT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T
GR/DOB ROUTING
8331 200
PATERAKO Martens 1959.
FRANKFURT PARIS
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF SR 6

INFO CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS, EE 4, WE 4, OS 2, 3/C 2

TO FROB PARI
FROB.
13 16 0 2259
Rec'D CARLE SECT.
INITIALS
PRIORITY
N INITIALS
TO 81907
REDWOOD REDSOX AEACRE

REF FROB 3501 (IN 22378)

LCFLUTTER OPERATOR PLANS TRAVEL PARI 19 MARCH. CAN AEASPIC BE AVAILABLE.

2. SUGGEST FRIGANZA MEET OPERATOR PARI.

3. REQUEST PARI ARRANGE CONTROLLED SITE FOR INTERROGATION.

END OF MESSAGE

Agree LCFLUTTER AEASPIC prior final decision.

IRD Coord by phone CPhalen
SR/2

SR/3 16 MAR 1959
white
SR/DCOP/FI
EE/COP/1 WEIS
CIWE F

TELEASING OFFICEE COORDINATING OFFICERS C/SR/DOB MICHAEL RAE

S-E-C-R-E-T AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy. No.
20% 233477

14-00000
191 ERS
CLASSED MESSAGE
DATE 5 FES 59
CC-R-E-T
TO
DIRECTOR
FROM
FRANKFURT
ROUTING

ACTION SR6 FEB 6 18332-59

INFO EE WE 4S/C2 ACTION CHANGE
ROUTINE
FROM 3376 IN 16580

ITE

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM EE TO SRBY ALICE ANDERSON, EE, EXT 3303, IN COORDINATION WITH ESTER FOGWELL, SR, EXT 3093.

S-E-C-R-E-T
F REE 1959

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

1400000

011/0

DATE 05 FEBRUARY 1959
TO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

DIRECTOR
FROM FRANKFURT

ACTION: ESR ROUTING
1

FEB 6 86 20:5
RECID CABLE SECT,

INFO SR 4, WE 4, S/C 2 ROUTINE

ADDED OR 2 (ACTION) IN16580

TO DIR INFO FRAN PARI CITE FROB 3376

1. PER PARA 7 REF NOTICE/AEASPIC OVER DUE. REQUEST ADVICE ON WHAT WE SHOULD WRITE HIM AS EARLY LETTER OBLIGATORY.

PLS INFO PARI WHICH CAN WRITE LETTER.

END OF MESSAGE
9 гго 1959
SECRET
201-233477

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

14-00000

Nothing came of the check and there is no reason to believe that Subject
will be troubled further. But the prespect of complications with the
Prench authorities, who are cow-a-days frequently in an angry wood anyway,
distureed subject so tint he was not as pliable or as intent on the exercise
with Jäentity as he had been. Also, not knowing what could have been be
behind the police check and not wishing to take unnecessary risks in the
cireimstances, we did not dally with the remaining things which needed to
be done. Identity was finished with Subject shortly before noon, whereupon
se instructed him to check out of his hotel and have ale picture taken taken
the latter because we had not received by post the negatives he claims to
have sent, we met Subject at the Gare Montparnasse at 1500 hours to
discover that he had not been able to get the negatives owing to the
reluctance of the photographers to part with them, or so he claimed."
Instead, we got several "Photogat" shots and accompanied Subject to the
vicinity of his hotel near the Care St.. Lazard where we waited until we
saw Subject depart from the hotel after checking out with his things.
This we knew that he had departed safely and that he had not got involved
in a police follow up.

Arrangements with Subject: By the time we left Subject on 9
January we promised him that we would write him within five days to in-
form him of the approximate date of the next meeting and/or give him a
general answer whether he will be transferred to Germany; i.e., whether
he has been hired. DIR 07455 had not yet been received by us in Paris.
Before leaving Faris on 10 January we received DIR 07455 which requested
that no definite commitment be asde to Subject and we accordingly left a
draft letter with the Paris Station which will be sent to Subject on or
about 15 January. In double talk this letter will tell Subject that we
(the undersigned) have not received a definite answer, that we shall try
to get one for his sake, and that we expect to have one by about 1 February.
In the asantime Subject should make no definite plans one way or the other.
We trust that it will be possible and convenient to reach a decision con-
cerning Subject by about 1 February. In the course of the Paris meeting
we also informed Subject that we (the undersigned) would probably come to
fetch him, which tentative assurance was given in order that Subject, would
not have reason to think that he would lose contact with someone he knows
and thereby to help buck up his morale. Subject was also told that he
would probably go to PEPRIMS if hired. Otherwise, no plans or tentative
arrangerents were discussed with Subject.

Identity's Assessment of Subject: Case officer discussed Subject
at length with Identity and we believe it is safe and fair to state that
there is complete general agreement concerning Subject. We may disagree
on the point of pairing Subject with ASSATCIEL, but so far this would seem
to be a sinor matter. Identity struck the phrase that Subject "satisfies
all selection criteria" used in PARI 4625 and will have concurred in this
dispatch. Identity would prefer not to write a precis of his assessment
at this time; he would rather subalt his full assessment which will covar
his views concerning pairings with other possible candidates after his
return to Headquarters. There is little we can add and trust that this
wili suffice for the time being. In general we believe that our assess-
ment subaitted as Attachment C to EUPA-24034 is not wide of the mark.
We do not, however, wish this to be construed as an indirect report on
Identity's asseaszent or Subject; he will submit his own report. In-
cidentally, we have enjoyed working with Identity on this case and have
learned from his techniques and approach. His trip has so far been most
salutary.

Comment concerning a decision on Subject: The decision on
Subject's candidature for RELSOX cught not be delayed any longer then is
necessary. Identity agreed that Subject will keep for a time and that he
very rich wants the job with us. There are several reason's why we think
that it would be unwise to delay the decision to remove Subject from
France to Germany where he can be hald without undue difficulty. Firet,
he is naturally impatient and will not be happy if he is obliged to wait

2
CLAS
SECRET

14-00000

DISPATCH
for an extended period. While we recognize that Subject's hapiness is not a matter of much immediate concern, we believe that it could be an 10- 
-portant factor in his fatire handling. Second, Subject reports that his Business is doing well and thì that he hopes eventually to acquire a a Prench
passport which in effect would rozove the restrictions under thích hồ now lives. The acquisition of a passport and financial success would, we believe, considerably change Subject's frame of mind and possibly his willingness for REDSOX. Third, Subject might at any time have arm-in
with the French authorities. It might not be his fault but but it might make it Impractical or impossible to reach him when and if he is wanted. Pourth, Subject points out that he cannot simply disappear from Gap with-
out straightening out his affairs, particularly his business affairs with his business partners. "Cannot" may be an exaggeration, but the fact is that Subject is the sort of person who would leave his friends in the lurch, as he sees it, only under extreme circumstances. He would not be happy about having done so. He would like to have about three weeks
warning before his departure and as far as we can judge this is not an easonable request. In short, we believe that Subject is an excellent, albeit not ideal, candidate and that it would be when to make sure of his availability insofar as we can by bringing him at the earliest possible date to Germany where we shall have better control.

Approved: Zubin
Francis M. Bankshire

Distribution:

SR

EE
2 MB
2- Paris

COS

SECRET Anthony H. Priganza

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
414 GHS/DLD/8/3/iw ROUTING
13 JAN 59

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO DIRECTOR JAN 13 22437 59

FROM FRANKFURT
ACTIO SR ROUTINE

INFO CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, FI/OPS, EC 4, WE, S/C 2

IN 47184

TO DIR FRAN PARI CITE

REDWOOD REDSOX AEACRE

REF OFPA 36605

1.DISCUSSED CANDIDACY SUBJECT DURING TDY PARIS. FACT HE APPARENTLY WIDELY BLOWN RELATIVELY UNIMPORTANT IF HE USED FOR WHOLLY BLACK MISSION.
APPEARS ABLE AND FROM FILE SUITABLE PARI BELIEVES HE STILL WILLING.

IN VIEW IMMEDIATE, AND PRESSING NEED CANDIDATES SUGGEST WE WITH IDEN DIR 04861 (OUT 54659) RUN ASSESSMENT SUBJECT BEFORE FORMER RETURNS HQS. IF YOU CONCUR, WILL ADVISE PARI OUR ETA THERE AS SOON AS WE CAN ARRANGE SCHEDULE.

END OF MESSAGE
1708577
S-E-C-R-E-T 201-233477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No

41-00000
SECRET
(Then Filled In
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL
TO: CI/Operational Approval and Support
DATE 9 March 1959
PROJECT
AFACRE
Division FROM: (Division) SR/DOB

TRUE NAME
SUBJECT
David TZITZICHVILI
CRYPTONYM OR PSEUDONYM
AFASPIC
CI/OA FILE NO. SO FILE NO. C-73532

TYPE OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE USE OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE (Full
RFDSOX Agent
It is anticipated that the Subject will be brought to the United States in late
April to begin training, upon the completion of which he will be dispatched on
black mission into the USSR as member of a REDSCI team during late 1959.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
GOVERNMENT NAME CHECK
TYPE
☑ OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

SO field investigation)

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

PRO I OR EQUIVALENT IS ATTACHED IN TRO COPIES
PRO 11. WILL BE FORWARDED WHEN RECEIVED
☑ PRO 11IS ATTACHED, IF OBTAINABLE GREEN LIST CHECK HAS BEEN INITIATED

REVEAL NO INFORMATION OF VALUE WILL BE FORWARDED WHEN RECEIVED
REVEAL INFORMATION AS ATTACHED NOT INITIATED. NOT EXPECTED TO POSSESS RELEVANT INFO.

SUGGESTED INVESTIGATIVE COVER
ACADEMIC
OTHER:
RI TRACES (If derogatory attach summary)... DIVISION TRACES (If derogatory attach summary)

RECORD DEROGATORY NON- CEROGATORY

NO RECORD RECORD DEROGATORY CEROGATORY NO RECORD
INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS ON INVESTIGATION OR SPECIAL COVERAGE DESIRED

NOTE: In accordance with the request of CI Staff (Mr. Brewer), the attached PRQ Part II is submitted herewith. Inasmuch as it is contemplated that a SR representative will proceed to Frankfurt in the near future to contact Subject relative to the mission, it is requested that the OA be expedited,

ABARE SUBJECT
COFUS 15 X OF CIA INTEREST (Possibly) GOVERNMENT INTEREST
HAS ........... OF PENDING INVE....... (Probably

BRIEFED ON "COVER" (not reflected in file)

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF
GEORGE A. FILL 3331 MICHAEL RAS, Chief, SR/DCB
FORM NO.
AUG 34.772 SECRET 21-233477

14-00000
UNIT ORIG George Pill
578 SE/LSB/

EXT 8332
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRE-T
ROUTING

DATE 3 March 1959 DEFERRED

TOPARI PROB INFO FRAN CITE DIR

REDWOOD HEDSOX AEACRE
RE FROB 3501 (IN 22378)
INITIALS.

WILL ATTEMPT GET LCFLUTTER OPERATOR PARIS SOONEST IF ASSESSMENT REVIEW REVEALS NECESSARY.

APPROVE PARI ACTION PER PARA 2 REF
END OF MESSAGE

Notes Report Pari after Hqs approval write Subjest double-talk letter explaining delay.
ASPIC

3 MAR 1959
EE/COP

RICAN COD

S-E-C-R-E-T
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy
41-233477

SECRET
20 January 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FOB

FROM Chief, COS/Medical

SUBJECT Laboratory Studies - AEASPIC 1
1. The chest x-ray was reviewed and although it is of poor tech nical quality, there is no evidence of active disease of the lungs.

2. The laboratory procedures which were reported by the French physician are also within normal limits.
VINCENT I. COOKENY

SECRET
211-233677

14-00000

SR/DOB PICTURES FALPORT (Dept. of 1960)

Pictures of AE ASPIC

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED NFIDENTIAL SECRET
700
FROM TO C
building)
SR/OOB
POUCH MATERIAL SEPARATE COVER
ENCLOSURE EXPEDITE
EGFA - 5336

9. 247161957
10.

610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000
00 10.

SECRET
FON Lay Danes Freikfurt

307 DMCL/KY
19 FEB 59
14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T
ROUTING
