2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED
ONLY
ENTIAL
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Chief Far East Division EXTENSION NO.

DATE 20 Nov. 68

TO: (Officerdesignation, room number, and building) DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS: COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Chief CI Staff 27 NOV 1968 27 NOV 1968 boo

CIRA for file

Mr. Dooley

00971 wot cathod

Document Number 1128-988

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

201-289248

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 EDITIONS USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL CO DENTIAL SECRET
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: CIRAIRS EXTENSION NO. DATE 26 Nov 68
2323 XAAZ-35926

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS: COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

IP/AN @ Please assign

XAAZ # and
clavifs to

IP/EDI (os pay 68 Of Date: 26 NOV 68)
201-289248

Document Number 1128-988
for FOIA Review on SEP 1976 Subject: Correspondence between
CIA and ASIO.
Re: release

28/Flas MAY
1978 of information by
Warren Commission.
IP/RMS

(00971 wot cathod)

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 EDITIONS USE ONLY

SECRET

304635
Executive Registry
68-5160/4

20 NOV 1968

XAAZ-
35926

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA : Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT : Letter for Director from Sir Charles Spry (ASIO)

1. Attached is a sealed letter from Sir Charles Spry,
Director General of the Australian Security Intelligence
Organization (who provided a copy of the letter to the Chief
of Station, Melbourne), and a suggested reply for your
signature.

2. Sir Charles' letter to you recommends again好家
declassification of the Warren Commission document CD-971,
which refers to our investigation of anonymous telephone
calls to the Canberra Embassy before and after the
assassination of President Kennedy.

3. I consider the points made by Sir Charles in his
letter to be valid and accordingly recommend against the
declassification of CD-971 in the foreseeable future. CI
Staff concurs with this recommendation.

Document Number 1128-988 4. Nelson
William E. Nelson
of
Chief, Far East Division

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

Attachments, 5
PROCARE FOR TRANSLATING
575 40. (2.3.4)
APPROVED/A
AVGAT REST, CODE CABLE ICON (11)
(4)
P/FRES FOR FILING

A. Letter from Sir Charles Spry
B. Letter Replying to Sir Charles Spry
C. FAMA 5698, subject: Declassification of Warren
Commission Document CD-971
D. Copy of CD-971
E. FAMW 3636, subject: Request for Release of Warren
Commission Document

cc: DOCI

DDP/FE/PMI/AN: Amos Taylor, Jrl:arc (19 November 1968)
Distribution
Orig & 1 - Addressee 1 - C/CI Staff
1 - DDCI RECORD COPY 1 - CFE
2 - DDP 1 - CFE/PMI
wanatic ...and
neslassification
1 - ADDP 1 - CFE/PMI/AN 26 που 68

201-289248
