RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

104-10187-10110	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
10
ASSIFIED MESSAGE	TOTAL COPICS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITLO
SAL SALVAD
CUV
UNIT
TIME
VINE
WH 1745
C/O STEEL R, FILE

SECRET 282138Z
PRIORITY DIR CITE SALU SSOL
WH DIY CUBA CUBAN DEFECTOR
PERS A. SALV 5296 (LN-53314
B. DIR 52599
24
CIA OFFICER
SALVADORAN
1. IN ACCORDANCE REFS AND MET INTEL CHIEF THIS MORNING
CIA OFFICER
28 SEPTEMBER IN OFFICE TO BRIEF HIM ON RECRUITMENT,
24
CUBAN TARGET
PORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. WAS NUCH IMPRESS-
ED AND AGREED ENPHATICALLY ONLY 24 AND PRESIDENTED WOULD KNOW

BECRUITMENT AND THEY WOULD NAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DURING
CIA OFFICER
CUBAN TARGET
POINTED OUT IS MOST IMPORTANT LOCAL TARGET
BECAUSE HE HAS KNOWLEDGE OF AND ACCESS TO COMMIE PARTIES SALV AND
OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES.
CIA OFFICER
2.SAONE OF HIS AGENTS WHO ALREADY HAS LEFT SALV.

SECRET
3/17
SOURCES&M
NETHODS

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE	SECRET	IN PAGE

CUBANASSET SALU. INTEL CHIEF 24
ARRANGED CONTACT WITH ACCEPTED SITHOUT QUEST-
ION, MADE NO DEMANDS, ORDERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTNOST
CIA OFFICER CIA OFFICER
COOPERATION TO AND BELIEVE THERE HAS BEEN NO
SECURITY PROBLEM TO DATE.

3. DO NOT FLAN HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT
DALTON
CUAAN TARGET
SOP TOO IMPORTANT TO RISK DRAWING ATTENTION
CIA
DALTON
TO PRESENCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE.
INTERROGATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND
COLLASGRATIO!! IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FORE GOING REASON.
24 SALV. INTEL CHIEF
CIA
AGREES HANDLE EXACTLY AS WISHES.

SOURCES ME
HETHODS
24
APPEARED CHT IN PRESIDENT ANE CHIEF
24
SALV. INTEL
SECRET
* ONLY ALTERNATIVE

SECRET
