104-10111-10079
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
43872
DAVID CHRIST

14 August 1961

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT:	Mrs. Charlotta Maria Christ, alias Carlotta Maria Van Trees.

The day after her husband’s arrest, 16 September 1960, Mrs. Christ and her daughter ( ) were invited to New York by the Agency and lodged in the ( ). She was provided with a spending of the equivalent of ( ) per week.

Mrs. Christ told very little knowledge of the Formosan activities performed by her husband and knew only of his operational and radio surveillance activities relatively late in the war.

Mrs. Christ was invited to visit her husband and Chief of the Radio Operations Erich, and that this branch’s missions all remain within the organization for the competitive installation of communication and other listening devices. She was never informed that this branch, including her husband, monitored diplomatic communications on a world wide basis. Mrs. Christ was instructed to learn that her husband’s association with Formosa had terminated and de-emphasize the fact that the technicians were scheduled for recovery by the Chinese from Agency territory. Mrs. Christ was then told that her husband, two other employees of the organization, a State Department employee and an agent were apprehended by the Cuban C-2 along with the boat captain and told that the State Department employee, Robert Schook (whose cover assignment was actually Defense Officer under State Department cover). Although the name of the agent (Fordsco) was not mentioned at this time, Mrs. Christ read about him in various newspaper accounts at the time of the trial. Mrs. Christ was also told that the operational indulgence that her husband represents, if disclosed to the Cubans, would not only cause considerable damage to the United States Government, but would also lead to intensive and probably brutal interrogation of her husband by the Cubans and probably the Russians as well. She was not advised of other operations involving her husband.

Mrs. Christ was shown as much information as possible about Mr. Christ’s career story. He was employed by a cover organization, Vachats Associates, located in New York City and had been provided with alien documentation, such as a driver’s license and a social security card. Mrs. Christ understood the reason for this cover, namely that it was easier for her husband to pass as a bachelor than to admit the encumbrance of a family. At no time, where the movements or activities of his Formosan and business partners, prior to their arrest, been discussed with Mrs. Christ. Mrs. Christ was informed that,

in the event of danger, the technicians planned to escape to an apartment which was occupied by an unwitting State Department secretary.

Since the initial interview, Mrs. Christ has gradually picked up additional information, mostly from newspaper articles, about the operation and subsequent trial. It is believed that Mrs. Christ has not obtained any clandestine information about the operation other than what has been covered in this procedure. At the present stage, Mrs. Christ has not been too interested in the operational aspects of the case, nor the reasons for her husband’s arrest. At the time of the trial, what little friendly parental attention she may have previously discussed with has always stressed the need for caution. Finally, she is convinced that the has been instructed not to ask any questions about his release per his present instructions.

Mrs. Christ was informed that Mr. Taylor, who was the department of state welfare officer in Havana at the time of the technician’s arrest, had contacted the prisoners shortly after their arrest. She was told that Mr. Taylor had offered to the technicians free liquidity and was also to verbally transmit what communications that their families gave him. Mrs. Christ sent some money through Taylor to her husband prior to the occurrence of diplomatic relations. She was also aware of Kessleria authorities in behalf of the technicians and knows that he supplied them with greeting money, cigarettes, candy and other items as requested. She was told that Kessler hired Dr. Colomer, a Cuban National, to serve as the technicians attorney. In May 1961, Kessler visited Washington, D.C. an unofficial capacity and met with Taylor on the assistance to the prisoners of other government agencies.

Mrs. Christ also knows that Dr. Colomer left Havana with his wife in June 1961 had has been brought to Washington, D.C. in connection with Government personnel. She has been told that another Cuban attorney was hired by Dr. Colomer to represent the technicians and handle the case when the appeal is heard. It is not indicated that Mrs. Christ should discuss the Washington attorney, Mr. Gurphy, but she appears to be acquainted with the name.

Mrs. Christ has learned from newspaper articles that there are about 20 Americans prisoners of Win Tu’s regime and that conditions at the prison are extremely poor. She also knows that food is brought to the technicians by a Cuban secreterio who occupies a cell with the technicians. She was advised that Dr. Colomer saw the technicians a few days prior to his departure and that they were in good spirits and that Mr. Christ constantly worked in the prison.

Because on knowledge of specific operations conducted by the organization to obtain her husband’s release, Mrs. Christ has known of

only one direct approach. She was told that the Cuban attorney offered to exchange medical supplies for the release of the three technicians and that the offer has never acted upon by the Cubans. She also knows that we have tried several other unsuccessful operations but she is unaware of any details of these attempts. Mrs. Christ does not know the operation new in progress, which contemplates utilizing personnel in Hideos. On several occasions, when the organization tentatively considered a given operation, First Base, 3, Remittance, she was consulted for ideas. For example, when Central prepared exchanging tractors for prisoners, Mrs. Christ cautiously questioned as an as to what action one may try to include the technicians in any exchange. She also had numerous ideas as to how this should be carried out. Still, she would only be told that the negotiations were being clearly monitored and that there would be no interference in behalf of her husband, unless the political climate was favorable.

As the above-American political atmosphere changes and specific acts come, such as the hi-jacking of J. W. Triplarson, Mrs. Christ may ask ideas or approaches regarding the means we might use to obtain the release of her husband. Of course, about the same time, we are usually consolidating a strategic capability.

Mrs. Christ has been verbally advised of the contents of the comments we have exchanged with the technicians and knows that the Ada Lava been unable to visit them. She knows that over 1000 pesos was left by Dr. Colom with the Cubans and that this amount is being supplemented through Dora. She also knows that we recently adjusted the Ada Lava to furnish supplies for pro-longed residence and that the packages which we sent to the technicians were not received by the fair, and therefore no father packages will be sent.

The operational details which have been discussed with Gen. Taylor, but not with Mrs. Christ are of such a nature that little damage would be done if they were inadvertently revealed to Mrs. Christ. The main points which should not be discussed with her are:

1.	The name of the Washington attorney handling the case,

2.	Details of present or future operations designed to effect the release of the men.