14-00000

10
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PRO
POSED

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
CAN DE INDEXING
ABSTRACT

A

AM
A
COM
ISHED

FROM

INFO
Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Technical Surveillance Soviet/Satellite Agent's

ACTION REQUIRED: HMMW-10893

1.  Station fully agrees with Headquarters concerning the value of
    concentrating LIFEAT or LIENVOY coverage on suspected and/or known
    Soviet, Satellite and Cuban agents residing in Mexico City. The Station
    in the past has undertaken this type coverage and will continue such
    coverage in the future as LIFEAT and LIENVOY facilities become avail-
    able for assignment to these targets. As Headquarters is aware, this Station
    can and will cover any possible target Headquarters considers of high
    enough priority to cover.

2.  For example, Carmen BRUFAU Civit was covered for 1956, 1957,
    1960 and 1961; the results were not considered of sufficient value to continue
    the coverage.

3.  Presently, Elena VASQUEZ Gomez, one of the persons referred
    to in reference, works for General Lazaro CARDENAS del Rio, pro-
    Communist former President of Mexico. Coverage of CARDENAS by
    LIENVOY means a certain amount of coverage of VASUEZ Gomes.

Willard W. Curtis

Distribution:
3- Hqs
4 Files

ES COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPE

23 Aug. 1902

DATE DESPATCHED
31 Aug. 1902

CKSPATCH SYMBOL AND N
ΗΜΜΑ-19700

HEADQUARTERS FILE MUNGES

CLASSIFICATION
50-6-32/1

SECRET-

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO

CLASSIFICATILIN
SECRET

PRO
POSED

PROCESSING
MARKER FOR INDEXING
NO INDENG REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ACTION

PUSHED
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
Chief, WH Division

LIFSAT Project Renewal

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: A-19129, 1 June 1962

1.  Project LIFEAT has been renewed for the period of 1 July 1962
    through 30 June 1963 in the amount of $99,000.00.

2.  Please note that this means a cut of $3,193.00 from the Station's
    original request for $102,193,00 to $99,000.00. WILD was allocated $99,000.00
    for this Project for FY 63.

3.  This reduction was made by reducing "Hiscellaneous Op Expenses" from
    $4,000.00 to $807.00.

4.  KUTURE and KUDESI Staffs concurred in recommending renewal. KUDESK
    reiterated that the facilities of this Project could and should be used for
    the coverage of known or highly suspected agents of the Soviet/Satellite and
    Cuban intelligence services in Mexico. KUDBSK notes that Bowe twenty of
    these agents have been documented in detailed target studies which were
    forwarded to the Station.

Distribut loa:
2
- Mexico City

CROSS REFERE

END OF DISPATCH

50-6-32/1

ATE TYPE

DATE SPA

31 July 1962

3 AUG 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
006-10803

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBE
50-6-32/1

ORIGINATING
TYPIST
ROUTING RI INITIAL

WH/3/Mexi

WH/3/Mexico
Lee G. Norris

nr

COORDINATING
OFFICE

nr
DATE
WH/PO/A

Ruth Sear

WH13

3AUG

1902
RELEASING

OFFICERSIGNATURE

J. C. KING

LVII IAMAX
C/WHD

53
USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM 6208 RICH MAY BE USED

5940

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

SUEJECT

:
Project LIFEAT (Renewa1)
WH - Mexico City

23592

1.  The attached project, ori-inating in WH Division, is
    presented for renewal for the perisi i Jul 1902 through
    30 June 1963. The proleet supports a unilateral telephone tap
    operation woich provides daily Information on the activities o
    official foreign installations In Rexico City and personnel
    thereof, as well as coverage of the activities of selected in-
    dividuals and croups.

2.  Authority is requested 'e of litate 300,000 from the
    DD/P-WH Division budget in fiscal year 1963, aut'ect to the
    availability of 'unds. Of this amount $16,80, is estimated for
    administrative salaries: 343,41 for field agent salaries;
    $20,928 for basenouse rentals; 5000 for equipment: 12, 2,100
    for local transportation; and for miscellaneous operational
    expenses.

3.  The Feld Project Outline and review whien are forwarded
    by the Division with a covering memorandum, give a clear descrip-
    thon the project activity and accomplishments. The project
    has teen In eontinuous operation chee 1!, starting with a
    single tap against the Soviet testten in Mexico City and nowW
    coverin." as many as toirt lines in a given month. The project
    13 starred by an "outsider case officer (Career Agent David M.
    WILSTAD (P) of Project LPICG), four contrast agents who do ad-
    ministrative work, ond and twenty-one Meld arents a Includ lud: monitors
    and Unest. Darin the post year the project provided coverage
    of the home phones of three Soviet Intelligence officers, the
    Polish Emi, the Yuo.. o..lav Atacay, acay, major tres dea in the
    transatpment of 1.C. good. to cute, American Communists in Mexico,
    and exile and revolutionary prouve In Nextec. St Information
    was obtained and additional secerity was provided Station operas-
    tions. Although coverage of the efficial Soviet and Czech
    installations recame a jotat operation with the Hextoun Government
    In LIEDVOY, Project LIFEAT rensins avallatle to resume covera e
    of these installattens should a cheure in the local government
    or its attitude to CIA participation necesritatie such change.

14-00000

For the future, the Station has homes of employing LIFEAT assets.
in "hot mike" operations which will require access to telephone
centrals and caules. It is the opinion of the Station that the
support provided the Station opera:cone, the CI/CE information,
and the ability to cover sensitive targets without revealing
our interest to liaison services Justifies the expenditure of
funds, time, and perronnel under tata project. The overali
performance of all agents in the comolex continued to be good;
no security problems were encountered unten were not solved by
the personnel involved.

4. Appropriate Special Start components recommend renewal.
The FT Start notes that the proces coes to te a most userul
operational asset of the Station ion has produced
toirty-seven positive Intellicence were of particularioteert ommer
of roods to Cuba. F commen ftaeminations, six of wnich
To FI/D was received from Project IP
al transnipment
of direct interest
at the teeng.co
coverage of the diplomatte installation would afford valučile
assistance to the planain and an I/D endeavor to
mount operations. The CI Stef reiterates that the facilities
of this project cani choices Lhored the coverage of
known of hlebli suspected accatters
t/Catellite/m
Cutan inteligence corvices in enotes that some twenty
of these agents have been documented in detailed target studies
which were forwarded to the Station.

5. I recommend renewal of trees LIPER" and invite the
Division's attens the reccomercio CI State in pora-
graph 4 stove.

.
Chief, LOP

27 July 2

Approved:
Attachments:
Project Curline LiFEAT
FI Memoranda

SECRET

For dination:
Π/Κατάès For -8/C. Latas
Ser -3/5. Hanng
For I/H -s. sste
-/C. Stre -s, V. telentiter

14-00000

19 JUL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director (Plans)

THROUGH: DDP/PG

SUBJECT: Project I.IFEAT Renewal

FI Staff recommenda reneval of Project LIFEAT. This
unilateral audio effort continues to be a most useful
operational asset of the station as indicated by the specific
examples furnished in the renewal request. In addition, it
produced 37 positive intelligence disseminations, six of which
were of particular interest concerning illegal transhipment of
1.8. goods to Cuba.

Attachment
Project

,
LLOYD GEORGE
Chief
Foreign Intelligence

::

14-00000

SECRET

9 July 1962

Project LIFEAT WH/Hexd.co

(Audio Operation)

1.  FI/INT files contain 37 positive information
    disseminations attributed wholly or in part to Project LIFEAT
    during the year 1 July 1961 through June 1962. They were concerned
    principally with contacte between Maxican Communists or leftists
    and Cubans or individuals of the Soviet Eloc, and with the travel
    of Latin Americans to the Soviet Bloc and Cuba. Six reports of
    particular interest consisted of information on Transcontinental S.A.,
    a company allegedly engaged in the illegal transshipment of US goods
    to Cuba. Other reports of significance dealt with the contacts and
    activities of former Guatemalan President Juan Jose AREVALO Barmeja,
    now living in Mexico. There was reporting on Kicaraguan and Spanish
    exile activity in Mexico and on the revolutionary sentiment and
    expectations of other Latin American nationals.

2.  LIFEAT has provided positive intelligence of value and of
    relevance to customer requirements and to objectives of the PNIO.
    It has been pointed out in the renewal request that the production
    of positive information is incidental to the projects primary function
    as a support and CI/CE operation.

3.  RENEWAL IS RECOMMENDED.

HAJOES ESTEY
Chief, FI/INT/RE

SECRET

Exstated was at

14-00000

Cryptonyro LIFEAT
Mexico City

Mexico City
Type of Pro.ού.

WH
Provides Mexico City Station with a unilateral telephone tap operation
which has been in existence for 11 years.
Case Ofacem oom - Blag

5940

Lee G. Norris
3 B 0003 Hq
New
Amenamsut X

1 July 1962. 30. June 1963.
Ceraments and Recom chur.t

KUDESK/ICG concurs in the recommendation that the LIFEAT
Project renewal request be approved.

Date of Evaluation of era of Cater, CI/ICO

13 July 1962 ide & Shams Mitzl bygr
Forza 1480

14-00000.
ANIZATIONAL
SECRET
PROJECT ACTION

ECF ACTION
SEO PROJECT

DIVISION
WH Division
FIELD هن ١٢٥٠٠
Mexico City
DENTOAL
X1063
EXTENSION
BRANCH

Mexico
WR/3

A

Lee G. Norris
FIRMINATION
3 B 0003
CONCURRENCES OF DIVISION
TYPED NAME and signature

John M. Whitten
Ned P. Holman

Robert D. Carter

Milan

Ribito un

DES
Robert D. Carter

21 JUN

WIL/PO/A

Clark V. Simocná

be

SAID fer

JC

G. King
Junt. pestom

26 June

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPOMENTS

APPROVAL
FROM

PERIOD

1 July 1962
30 June 1903 $99,000.00

SIGNATU
APPROVING AUTHORED

DOP/PG

848

SECRET
DATE
ALICLINT
