14-00000
:
104-10162-10107 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

[X]CLASSIFIED	INTERNAL	[ ] CONFIDENTIAL	[ ] SECRET
ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)	03

FROM: WH/4/Prop/ [signature]
NO.

DATE 13 January 1961

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and	DATE	OFFICER'S	COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building)	RECEIVED	FORWARDED	INITIALS	to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

1.	C/M/L/CI		nua
2.	WH/IUIDA	
3.	[signature]	

4.	M.Throge-pls zee hue

5.		

6.		

7.		

8.		

9.		

10.		

11.		file
	Cenberry
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

12.		

13.		

14.		

15.		

PORM USE PREVIOUS	[ ] SECRET	[ ] CONFIDENTIAL	INTERNAL	[ ] UNCLASSIFIED
610 EDITIONS		USE ONLY
* U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1900-0-476735

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/4	SECRET	IB MEMO NO. 5269
	10 January 1961

ATTENTION	: Mr. Lou Napoli

SUBJECT	: Transmittal of Documentation for use of Manuel Artime y Buesa

REFERENCE	: Memo from WH/4, 27 December 1960

1.	This is to confirm that the following Cuban documentation was handcarried
on 9 January 1961 by Mr. Stanley Shultz as requested in reference:
03
a.	Passport No. 17130
b.	Vigencia (Exit Permit) JL-11041-H
c.	International Certificate of Vaccination

2.	The Cuban Passport contains a U.S. Non-Immigrant Visa, B-2, issued in 24
Santiago de Cuba on 17 May 1960s and is valid until 17 May 1964. ( The Miami Admitted
Cachet and Arrival-Departure Record 1-94 were provided by I&NS and are "backstopped".
You will note that 1-94 form shows that subject was admitted to the U.S. on 16 June
1960 and has a valid extension of stay until March 15, 1961.

3.	It is our understanding that subject will leave the U.S. "black" but will
carry the above listed documentation. The documentation should be returned to
TSD/IB when no longer needed for operational purposes.
03

CHARLES YECH, JR.
CHIEF, TSD/IB

Distribution:
Original and 1- Addressee

SECRET
31
