104-10219-10282 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

[illegible] CONTINUED CONTROL

201-989338

1 August 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT: NICHOLAS GEORGES DAMASCUS,
ANASTASIA MAGDALENE MARTILIANE DASKALAKIS

1. Reference is made to our memorandum of 17 July 1961,
captioned as above and also to your letter dated 20 July 1961,
addressed to the Director, National Security Agency, with copy to the
Agency, Subject: GEORGES MITCHELL, William Hamilton
MARTIN, MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING.

2. The following information supplements the material on
NICHOLAS Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCO aka DAMASKOU aka
DAMASCUS reported in paragraph 4 of our 17 July 1961 memorandum,
referenced above.

a. Our representatives in Melbourne advised that Australian
Security Service Indices reflect that NICHOLAS Georges DAMASCO aka
DAMASCO, Greek national, born 18 March 1931 at Alexandria, Egypt,
arrived in Sydney, Australia on 6 October
1956, aboard the S. S. STRATHNAVER, traveling on Greek Passport
No. R083/1946, issued 8 March 1946 at Alexandria, Egypt. At the
time of his arrival in Sydney, DAMASCO was in possession of
Australian Visa No. 134, issued in Cairo on 18 July 1956. He was
described as follows: single, 5 feet 10 inches tall, normal build,
brown eyes, black hair, occupation "writer". He departed Australia
on 28 May 1958 aboard the S. S. ORONSAY, destination not indicated,
and as of 18 July 1961 had not re-entered Australia.

b. Our representatives in Mexico City meanwhile had
learned that Anastasio Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, sister of
the above, on 8 July 1960 applied at the Mexican Consulate in San
Antonio, Texas, for a Mexican Tourist Card to enter Mexico to visit
her brother Nicholas Georges DAMASCOU, then residing at the Hotel

SECRET
[Illegible] CONTINUED CONTROL

New York, Mexico City, is indicated as her "contact" in Mexico to verify
permit, she made no effort to comply with the condition that she deposit with the Consulate a 10,000 Peso bond, as a guarantee of her intention to depart Mexico upon expiration of her Tourist Card or visa. Mexico City information
files contain certain no record of her actual arrival in Mexico following approval of her 8 July 1960 application. The most recent correspondence on these cases is contained in Macao files in early January 1961
reflecting that Anastasie DAMASCOU again requested a Tourist Card
on or about the date of the letter, at which time her address in the
United States was given as e/o Mexican Consul, San Antonio, Texas.
In reply to her second application for an entry card, an immigration authority in Mexico again replied with a request that she post a bond to the amount of 10,000 Pesos, to guarantee departure from Mexico upon expiration of her tourist visa. There is no further information currently available on her further travel plans.

c. With reference to Nicholas Georges DAMASCOU, on basis
of the information reported in preceding paragraphs, a recheck by our
representatives with officials of the United States Embassy in Mexico
City revealed that Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU, born 18 March 1931
at Alexandria, Egypt, holder of Greek Passport #1983 issued in
Alexandria, Egypt, on 9 March 1961 and valid to 19 April 1961, with
address of 4 Elizabeth King Road, Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, Australia,
was the recipient of a United States Visa on 4 October 1960. On his
application, DAMASCOU indicated that he desired to visit the United
States for a period of four months, described as a pleasure trip to visit
his sister. His visa application did not include any destination address
in the United States. It was also noted that the visa card maintained on Nicholas DAMASCUS in the Embassy in Mexico City contains a notation "10500 to Immigration and Naturalization Service, Los Angeles, May 29 1961".

d. Through a reliable confidential source our representa-
tives in Egypt had learned in the interim that Nicholas DAMASCOU, who
is identical with the individual described in preceding paragraphs,
currently resides in Los Angeles, California, at 1100 North Gardner,
Apartment 16, and that he advised his mother and younger brother,
still residing in Alexandria, that he plans to marry the daughter of an
American official, who is not further identified. The same source
also advised that Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASKOU, father of
Nicholas and Anastasie DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, died during the
summer of 1960. Following the demise of the father, Angelika
DAMASCOU nee GAVOURAS, widowed mother of Nicholas and Anastasie

SECRET
[Illegible] CONTINUED CONTROL

DAMASCOU, in company of a younger son not identified by name, had
planned to emigrate from Egypt to join her son Nicholas in the United
States. However, prior to the finalization of these plans, Angelika
DAMASCOU suffered a stroke, details concerning which are not
known, but she is reported as of this writing still to be paralyzed and
obviously to be unable to travel. No further information was available on
the possible future immigration plans of Angelika DAMASCOU nee
GAVOURAS and/or of her unidentified younger brother of Nicolas
DAMASCOU and of Anastasie DAMASCOU.

e. On basis of the reported filing of an application for a
United States Visa in July 1956 at the U.S. Embassy in London by
Anastasie DAMASCOU, our representatives in London were requested
to institute checks of Alien Index cards in the names of Nicholas
DAMASCOU and of Angelika DAMASCOU. [illegible] advised that as of
late July 1961, they held no traces on Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka
DAMASKOU aka DAMASCUS and DALLASCUS, but that although they had
no traces on Anastasie DAMASCOU, they are continuing to check her
possible residence in London during 1956, based on the reported visa
application data. [illegible] advised that they held no traces to either of
Nicolas Georges DAMASCO aka DAMASKOU aka DAMASCUS or on
his sister Anastasie Georgette DAMASCOU.

3. It is suggested that the indices of the Department of State,
Visa Division as well as the indices of the Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service, Department of Justice, may contain further detailed
information on the current immigration status, whereabouts in the
United States, and also the contacts in the United States of Nicolas
Georges DAMASCOU aka DALLASCUS, of Anastasio Georges DAMAMCOU
aka DAMASCUS, and any other members of the family who may have
applied for entry visas from abroad.

4. With regard to Jamil ELIRRA Casarem, mentioned in above
referenced memorandum of 17 July 1961 as a contact of Nicholas
DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, it is suggested that the indices of the
Department of State may contain additional information on his activities
during his service as the Mexican Embassy in Washington, D.C.

5. The information reported above is for the internal use of

SECRET

SECRET
NO FORM CONTINUED CONTROL
addressees only and may not be further disseminated without the prior
permission of the originator.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

/S/
WILLIAM K. HARVEY

cc: National Security Agency
Attn: Mr. J. Wesley Reynolds

SECRET
