104-10110-10298  2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SECRET
REQUEST OFFICIAL COVER ACTION

1. WHEN REQUESTING INITIAL COVER OR 2. WHEN CHANGE OR REMOVAL IS RE- FILE NO.
ON RETURN FROM OVERSEAS ROUTING QUESTED ROUTING SHOULD BE:
SHOULD BE: (COMPLETE SECTION 1) (COMPLETE SECTION 2)
TO: CCS/OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH TO: CCS/OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH EMPLOYEE TELEPHONE NO.
(Use Form 610 Routing & Record Sheet) (Use Form 610 Routing & Record Sheet)
FROM: Security
FROM: RETURN TO CIA
THRU: OS/SSD

SUBJECT'S TRUE NAME (last, first, middle) EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
Bustos, Videla, Charlotte 007667
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER FOR SUBJECT IS REQUESTED.
DATEPS
COVER REQUESTED MILITARY STATE OTHER GOVT. AGENCY (specify)
XX
S
E
USE OF COVER DOMESTIC ALL PURPOSE DOMESTIC OPERATIONAL INTEGRATED NOMINAL
C
SUBJECT'S/CIA AFFILIATION HAS HAS NOT BEEN VOLUNTARILY DECLARED OR INVOLUNTARILY EXPOSED TO. ANY OTHER EXPOSURE OF
HAS NOT BEEN FOREIGN GOVERNMENT OR FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. THERE HAS COMPROMISE WHICH SHOULD BE CONSIDERED IN THIS REQUEST. (If an affirmative answer,
provide details on separate attachment.)
JUSTIFICATION FOR REQUESTED ACTION:
N
Ms. Bustos-Videla is currently assigned to the Trinidad
Station under Integrated State cover. It is requested that
she be placed under Nominal State cover for her future
Headquarters assignment.
SECT
CHANGE OF REMOVAL OF OFFICIAL COVER STATUS FOR SUBJECT IS REQUESTED
JUSTIFICATION FOR REQUESTED ACTION:
SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF REQUESTING OFFICER DATE
Jonathan G. Hanke. C/LA/PEMS
FOR OFFICE OF SECURITY

DO YOUR RECORDS REFLECT ANY EXPOSURE, COMPROMISE, SECURITY OR OTHER FACTORS WHICH SHOULD BE CONSIDERED
IN MAKING A COVER DETERMINATION, IN RESPONSE TO THE ABOVE REQUEST? (If the answer is affirmative,
provide details on separate attachment.)
OFFICE NO PERTINENT SEE
OF SECURITY INFORMATION ATTACHED

SIGNATURE
APPROVAL SIGNATURE
DATE

E-2, IMPDET-CL BY: 006687 SECRET OS COPY

(02-04-38)
SIBK
