14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBER
NAME (Last-First-Middle)
Effective Date Requested
Month Day Year
Category of Employment
Funds
Organizational Designations
Location of Official Station

Position Title
Position Number
Career Service Designation
Classification Schedule (GS. LB, etc.)
Occupational Series
Grade and Step
Salary or Rate
Remarks

Date Requested
Date Returned
Reviewed By (Print Name)
Signature of
Reviewing Official

No Documents May Be Copied Or Removed From This File

BUSTOS-VIDELA, CZ
14 FEB 1950 - 16 JAN 1978
Office of Personnel
5E13
Materials retained at CIA Headquarters
House Select Committee on Assassinations staff intern's
SECRET

SECRET
(When Filled In)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBER
2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)
Bustos Videla, Charlotte Z.
Nature of Personnel Action
Reassignment
4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH DAY YEAR
03 03 73
Funds
X
V 10 V
(CF TO V
V to Of
CF to v
Financial Analysis No.
Chargeable
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
4235-4525-0000
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
Washington, D.C.

Position Title
Ops Officer
(13)
15. Occupational Series
0136.01
Grade and Step
13 7
Date Prepared
31 July 1973

CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
Regular
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)

CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
D
17. Salary or Rate

23642
Remarks
Home Base: WH

18A. SIGNATURE REQUESTING OFFICIAL
H.L. Berthold
18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

25. DATE OF T.
2.ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21 OFFICE CODING
22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. HRGTRS
NUMERIC
ALPHABETIC
NUMERIC
C008
5/10 5/10 0 WH 75 013
26
MO DATE EXPISES 21. EOD DATA 29 SPECIAL 36. BERVICE (D) SERY TOMP DATE 31 SEPARATION 32 [ACTION/CANCELLATION
REFERENCE
DATA [MO
47. LOVE CAMP DATB (Y)
CODE
COVE
DATA CODE
TYPE
38 CABLER CATEGORY 39. FEGLS/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. 3OCIAL BEcurity No
41 PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42, LEAVE CAI 43. 34 PREVIOUS SERVICE45. OR AFPROVAL
FORM EXECUTED
SION/M
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
JATED BY

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT
Chairman, GS-13 Evaluation Board

Recommendation for Promotion to GS-14
Charlotte Bustos-Videla

1. It is recommended that Charlotte Bustos-Videla be promoted from GS-13 to GS-14,

2. The performance of this officer has been characterized for many years by all of her supervisors as consistently strong to out-
standing. She has been able to establish herself as indispensable in each Headquarters Branch or Field Station assignment, usually
functioning as the backbone of the unit to which assigned. Since return to Headquarters in September 1972 from her field assignment
in Mexico, her performance has been entirely congruent with the thrust of the Field Station's enthusiasm over her ability, performance,
attitude and growth potential. She is currently chief of the Cuban and CA Section of her branch, and has established once again her
mastery over her assigned duties. She is the kind of sound, dependable, yet imaginative officer greatly appreciated by her supervisors. In
short, she is a true professional who performs beyond her grade level.

3. In regard to her potential, she has served in the Agency since 1951, starting as a secretary/stenographer, and advancing
brilliantly with each new challenge offered. She achieved professional status in 1953 and has spent the bulk of her time since then specializing
in Latin American affairs, demonstrating total flexibility in assignments, a voracious appetite for work and a penchant for exceptionally precise
and thorough production. A review of her career to date can lead to the conclusion that she has always risen successfully to each new
professional challenge, and is still far from reaching her maximum capacities, While she has had little supervisory experience in the
field, her supervisor was of the option that she is a "natural leader". This has been borne out in her performance in her current capacity as
a Branch Section Chief, in which she has demonstrated exemplary supervisory ability. Notwithstanding her drive, aggressiveness and professional
aplomb, she is a popular co-worker, is receptive to guidance and sensitive and responsive to the needs of her subordinates.

SECRET
4. This employee has utilized her fluency in the Spanish language to maximum advantage in her work. Formal testing recently confirmed
her high proficiency in that language. Coupled with a comprehensive training record and her invaluable experiences over a twenty year
period, she has become particularly effective in Latin American operations and operational support, demonstrating excellence in each
of several recognized specializations, including CI operations, functional support, reports and requirements, area support and varied
covert action activities,

5. The officer's adaptability, high intelligence and mastery over her trade was of inestimable value to Mexico City Station, and over a
five year period from 1967 to 1972, she functioned as the Station's internal troubleshooter. Her duties included the maintenance of
watchlists, screening of travel documents, processing of raw technical take, target analysis, reperts writing, operational support,
handling of outside contract agents, and special assignments as the Chief of Station's Executive Assistant,

6. The employee is occasionally called upon by the Office of Training to administer specialized training, and she was chosen
recently to attend the Mid-Career Course ending in December 1972, Meanwhile, her absence from her new job is felt sorely by the
Branch, L is expected that her current assignment will last about two years,

7. In summary, we have here an exceptional officer who has been performing at the level of a GS-14 for some years; it is now
time to promote her to that grade commensurate with her performance and which she so justly deserves.

Theodore G. Shackley
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT
Chairman, QSI - Honor and Merit Awards Panel
Request for Quality Step Increase (HR 20-37)
Mrs. Charlotte Bustos-Videla

1. On the basis of the information presented below, it is recommended that a Quality Step Increase be approved
for Charlotte Bustos-Videla.

2. As noted in the attached fitness report, Subject's porformance of her duties has been uniformly outstanding.
In addition to her responsibilities in the Cuban section of the Mexico City Station, she has recently been made the exec-
utive assistant to the Chief of Station at Mexico City. In this job, she screens all incoming material for matters of
interest to the Chief and Deputy Chief of Station. She also continues performing her past functions in the Cuban section
for the Station.

3. Subject's present high quality of performance is typical of her performance since she entered the Agency in
1951, It is fully expected that this level of performance will be maintained,

4. Although the prosent Chief of Station was not the reviewing official on the attached fitness roport, he has
commented that he considered Subject an outstanding officer and has recommended that she be considered for a Quality
Step Increase,

William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, CBCS Panel (Section A)
SUBJECT: Recommendation for Promotion to Grade 08-13
Charlotte Z. Bustos-Videla

1. The promotion of Charlotte Z. Bustos-Videla from 08-12 to GS-13 18 hereby recommended.

2. This exceptional officer has now been performing at a senior level for several years and, while recognition through a
Quality Step Increase was granted her last year, her sustained performance clearly exceeding the requirements of a 08-13 qualifios her for a
promotion at this time. Subject is one of the outstanding women who have demonstrated their capacity for even further
advancement within the Agency and will probably continue to advance in the future. The present recommendation is based on already
demonstrated ability to operate at a senior level.

3. Subject is 30 years old and has been in grade as a 03-12 for the past five and one-half years.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief,
Western Hemisphere Division
EYES ONLY
SECRET
I SERIAL NUMBER
2. NAME (Last-First-Middie)
007667 Bustosvidela, C 2.
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Reassignment and Transfer to
Vouchered Funds
4. FUNDS
v TO
X TO F
CF TO
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIONATIONS
DDP/WH Division
Branch 1
CA Section
11 POSITION TITLE
Ops Officer
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, 1.1.)
GS
18. REMARKS

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH DAY YEAR
09 17 72
7 PINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO CHARGE.
ABLE
3235-0620-0000
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
Wash., D. C.

POSITION NUMBER 13 SERVICE DESIGNATION
(D-13)
15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01
1294
16 GRADE AND STEP
D
17 SALARY OR RATE
13 7  22,487
FROM: DDP/WH/BR 1/MEXICO CITY STATION/0418 HOME BASE: WH
2- Security
1 Finance
Issue Army W-2 (Concur: CCS
Henry L. Berthold, C/Wil/rs 
28522
W7:630WH/ers
25 SEP 172
17A
4164ATURE DE
27 B 10857 234 613
A
-
5115/034 4546
35 DATE CIGN-O
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY 00703-4
0A SIGNATURE OF CAPEER BAVICE AMPROVING CHIC
25 SEP 372
*SPACE SELDWFOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE VICE DESNIME
9 AC1100 1917.10.10
CODE CON CODE
ALPNAS
*201391 450233
2287*
F111013
23
20
37 LONG COMP DATE
W2"

TRAMY
A01173
1530"
0-43
DATE ATION,
LATION
01
LOMHAYIN
ATE AFPROVED
161120
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR: Charlotte Bustos-Videla
THROUGH
SUBJECT
: Chief, WH Division
: Quality Step Increase

1. I was pleased to learn that you have been
granted a Quality Step Increase. Such recognition is
proof of the high esteem in which you are held by your
supervisors in the Clandestine Service.
2. Please accept my personal best wishes. I am
confident that your future performance will be of a
continuing high quality.

Thomas H. Karamessires
Deputy Director for Plans

MEMORANDUM FOR: Head, Clandestine Service
Career Service
SUBJECT
Notification of Approval of
Quality Step Increase -
Charlotte Bustos-Videla

1. I am pleased to send to you the attached official
notification of the approval of a second Quality Step Increase
to be awarded to this employee. The previous Quality Step
Increase was effective March 1964.

2. May I again ask that you arrange an appropriate
ceremony for the presentation of this Quality Step Increase
which is in recognition of her continuing excellent performance.
