14-00000
104-10193-10163

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
"
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: FRONT NATIONALE
(NATIONAL FRONT)
LOUSE DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT

DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
RECEIVED | RETURNED |
15-6-94 | 19-5-04 | ALLESE ORR | Phobe C. Orr

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000

DEPARTMENT OF STATE MEMORANDUM DATED 20 DECEMBER 1948
(FRONT NATIONALE FRANCE)

THIRD AGENCY

14-00000

9 August 194
SECRET
LONDON
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
COUNTRY France ORIGINAL REPORT NO SV-130
SUBJECT Resistance and Labor organisation DATE OF REPORT 24 July 1944
in Normindy; Civilian Attitudes EVALUATION B-2

CONFIRLATION
SUPPLEMENT
SOURCE ONS 3rd Army CORRECTION
GUD SOURCE
DATE OF INFORMATION Undated NULICED OF PAGES 2
PLACE OF ORIGIN France ATTACH JENTS
THEATRE ETO-London
DISTRIBUTION
Mr. Phillips
Cmdr. Kittredge
G-2 SHADH
G-2 12TH AG
GIN
1. The Conseil de In Resistance in Cherboug is composed of
three main groups: the O.C.M., Liberation and the Front National:
The Chief of the Connel de la Real stance, M. Crealin, is an
O.C.E. leader and his organization holds the majority of seats
in the Consell. The O C.M. is generally composed of merchants,
landowner's and notabies who, prior to the armistice, were
Rightists or extreme-Rightists.
Liberation, which claims to have been the most active and
efficient nevement in the Department, is led by and generally
composed of Socialists and C.G.T. τοπ. In fact all the Resist-
ance Socialists and Union men are aembers of Liberation.
As in the rest of France, the Front National is here the
Communist Party's resistance organization. It is not as
influential here as it is reported to be in other regions.

The right hand won to M. Grolit 15 M. Bocher Beauchet),
who seems to be as well the cat prominent labor Teader of the
department. Bocher is at the same time secretary of the Regional
Socialist i ederation, secretary of the lerchant Sailor's Union,
secretary of the Union des Syndicats, representative of the I.T.F.
and head of the local Liberation movement. lle is a very efficient
men and seems to be respected and osteeled by his political
adversaries.

3. The enthusiasm in favor of the Allies described in the news-
papers should not be overestimated. The Northan did not like the
Cermans and is glad that they have teen thrown out. But a very
SECRET
RETURN TO
IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE
JOB 26-780 BOX 20
3204.87

14-00000

SECRET
-2- SV-130.
great member of people here are suspicious of Resistance because
of the presence Cartunists apu Socialists. Moreover, they are very
reserved towards foreigners as a rule, and they are not sure of what
tlie Allies intend to do. The are also puzzled about the currency
which has been ir trused. On the part of Labor, there is a sincere
enthusiasm for the victories of the democracies somewhat teapered
by the way local problems are handled by military authorities. For
example, thel Army er the travy have hired dozens of workers to repair
thie Cherbourg har but nuit without consulting the
unions. (They have Thus given vork to detefformer Tout
more or less reliable, e, while skilled workers who were in Resistance Movement
are left unemployed. Instances of this kind are frequent.

SECRET.

14-00000

11thonote
caro..
"CUECO
τας
.
...

14-00000

wa; he stated that ir efectos ro
1.

in privas
2

ليمة

A

:
ددة
7-

از
ic
15
el
1. 200
3.
the stalle
jo
01001
talit

14-00000

:
در
こど
ei
:
:"
4.1.
udo.
'
Soler
L
ヒウンド
:
12
0
..
:
t
..
. the A
>
da
rapere
!
১৮
rs
ני
:

14-00000

nge 3.
tint the C
a.titudo,
:::13:
notenistas site i tide adotado 16.1

12.
dies in atto " ; "a with resisחוונים, אול
sold,
walls port for the Tars!モしで
of the Nesned is eagreens Set 1 tatto
:sm100%
arty would estituts a real
trieu
of the autres.
to a treimsica by
that tot ko
aide hoc hoa thic
Descent of the
11.1130
retallat roof the trs,
po
--
octeur o. the paty,
vistos ako vico trylis
-
to take advans e of the attestor of political powe

15. fern polis, is.. ers tseli sopposed to the
h:g:oby ate one treats thritte 14.11., the United States a
Enalla, sni 1 Lavor of collecurity, with all -
pratio rattom of the world aliyered in a interactional
100 of
wela-
21scany, .redit rart,
be counter the ננו Herd1:15 te tre brat a
contestoy the coat
12 is
Gerony, the
Sut spura
ong or
allic control of all
for coinction of Jesrea
cut

14. arty いい
members in Cor
secret27: Pe Pensa
Skin to date

oradas laserlesed dactiard to quote any figures,
itsara rony Foliomies in th。
tat
ן. ואינוי" י ירי ייי
old
intel a that one.
at ker
You, geus Joulפא "ה
leuraus rotating the
stated that ty mock root
cotlocalist 1. the furcsa tha: it wale besonit to reteca to a revolu.
1007

15. thesalong-tits the bes
part. Latercolor t
17.
1.
Επ:
93.tection at terr
