14-00000
104-10176-10067

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MASFERRED Y POTAS, ROLANDO
201-42669
VOL. IX
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN 67 THRU 31 DEC 68:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

|   DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
|:----------------|:----------------|:--------------------------|:-------------------------------|
| 4 ARS            |                | PAT ORR                |       Phon                      |
|   5 AUG 78     |                | PAT ORR                |       Phon                      |
|   7 AUG 1978   |                |       ORR                |         Jxs                         |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

___

14-00000

FBI doc
18 aug 67 (Miami)
Subject - Rolando arcadia
Masferrer Rojas
Bureau 2-156

___

14-00000

L
INDEX: YES ☐ NO ☑
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. TE
TOTAL COPIES
121
X-REF TO FILE NO. 201-42649
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DESTROY ☐ SIG. ☐
PERSONNEL UNIT NOTIFIED
ACTION
ADVANCE COPY
UNIT
TIME
SLOTTED TO FILES
7
c/WH6D ☐ COPY
FILE CS/DO, VR C/WH/COE-5, C/CI, 2/FI-2, C/CA-, /OPER
DDP,PadP
SECRET 342338Z CITE JMWAVE 4894

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

NO NIACT

DYVOUR PBRUMEN

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 4335 (IN 71146)

1. THRU SENSITIVE LOCAL CONTACT STATION ASCERTAINED
THAT REF CALLES WERE MADE TO FOLLOWING:

"ALEX": J.A.ASFERRER, 4324 42ND STREET,
QUEENS, NEW YORK CITY: TEL 0565-3521.

"MONTREAL": (REV)DIEGO MADRIGAL 238 ALEXANDER
AVENUE, BRONX, NEW YORK CITYTEL NO 545-2387.

2. NO FURTHER INFO RE POSSIBLE IDENTITY-OF

"LANG/LONG".

SECRET
SECRET

Rolando MOSFERRER
(201-042609) Called Saly
jw 67th Dalist wil
esitgtting allian

BI
MICROFILMED
NOV 28970
RECORDS OFFICE SUP
The following action is
authorized:

Reference: h
R.O. #517 - Unit WH/IT

Butet if destruetica, cite,
reasons and coordina 5 jaab?
7 if appropriate.
201-42669

___

14-00000

(When filled in)
S. ANALYST

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OF SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

6. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO
PI FILE .

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
019-300-021
DBC-39309
18 DEC 68
FBI
P28

R 6901230755

FILE IN 201-42669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

17-401
SECRET
18 Dec

___

14-00000

L

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

S. ANALYST
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM. 8. DATE OF 9. EVALUATION
6. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO
PI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-042549
SEX M DOB ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
019-300-021
DBC -39554
11 DEC 68
FBI
97
FORMER CUBAN SENATOR NEWSPAPER EDITOR,
LEADER NOTORIOUS PRIVATE ARMY CUBA KNOWN
AS LOS TIGRES /THE TIGERS/

R 6901130123

FILE IN 201-41/2669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

___

14-00000

FBI Clas.
30 Sep 68 (Miami)
Re Rolando Arcadia Masferrer
Rozás
Burdan #2-156
FRI doc
14 aug 68 (Miami
Re-Cuban Ex ile Involvement in
Haitian Revolutionary
Activities

___

14-00000

4
OEIC: GEORGE KULSTAD:eb
UNIT: WE/7/HT
EXT 5595
DATE: 23 JULY 1968
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
71
MESSAGE Form
TOTAL COPIES
25
ROUTING AND/OR INT ALS SEEN ST
S-E-C-R-E-T
DISTBOT
ROUTINE
DITUEN TO_
BRAMICH
COMP:
WH8
☐ COPY
ADVANCE COPY
FILE
- RILAN, WH/COG8, a, alops
FILE
ACTION
8-E-C-R-E-T (preste and time filled
INFO:
CITE DIRECTOR
73 17 43 232868 PORT AU PRINCE
jaterences)
RETS: A. JMCOBRA-0363 (IX-55140)*

B. SANTO DOMINGO-5912 (IN-55244)**
C. SANTO DOMINGO-5907 (IN-54327)***
18614

23 ле 68
ABPI

ABSTRACT
1. FRE HAS NO OBJECTION, BELIEVE LNYUMA SHOULD CONSULT
VITH U.S. ATTORNEY MEADOWS FOR DETERMINATION LEGAL STATUS, SINCE
LATTER BEYOND OUR PURVIEN.

2. DOES JACOBRA FEEL THAT HASFERRER PROPOSED TRIP IN ANY WAY
CONNECTED WITH REFS BAND C? SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS 1859
DATED 16 MARCH 1967 SAID THAT NEY TEJEDA SPECULATED THAT THERE
IS LINK BETWEEN ABBES, ROLANDO MASFERRER AND WESSIN, POSSIBLY
THROUGH SECZN, SECEN FORMERLY DOAM-4.

WH Comments:
END OF MESSAGE

*I&NB, through JMCOBRA, requested priority advice
on whether any objections exist Has on proposed
travel Rolando from Kiani to New York by automobile.
MICROFILMED

25NG 1968
DOC MICRO. BER

RELEASING OFFICER
CONTINUED....
C3.COPY
201-04266
COORDINATING OFFICERS
CROOFT
S-E-C-R-R-P
facluded from asti
AUTHENTICATINS
townsfing and
812449
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY ANG

___

14-00000

ORIG
UNITS
EXTS
DATES
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
251123 5156
S-E-C-R-E-T

JUL ¿º40 23 62
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX
DESTROT
RETURN TO
BRUNCH
RIOVEGE
NO INDEX
FILE DE CE FILE NO.
CONF
REFO
RID COPY
FILE
☐
10
TIME
PAGE TWO (deterencser)
CITE DIRECTOR
date and time filed)

8-E-C-R-E-T

Vladimir Secen in Santo Domingo on possible
purchasing mission.
18614
arms

***Vladimir Secen told EVMUSCLE-1 in Santo Domingo
that latter should be ready with group for in-
vasion of Haiti as Secen had money and backers
and would be ready shortly.

VILLIAN V. BROZ-
C/VHDL
OOC (Mr. Joka Greany)

AC/WH/7SS:

offi
DAVID A. PHILLIPS
C/WH/COG

COORDONATING OFFICERS

S-E-C-R-E-T
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.

___

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSENTION
PERSONALIT NOTIFIED
L

FIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPES 20
STING ANGIOR INITIALS - SEEN BY

SECRET
When Filled in
EXCLUANG

5/60
WANCE COPY
SLOTTED
INDEX
PRODOUCTION OF THIS COM XOMBID
YES☐ NO☐
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

A-REF TO FILE NO
DISSE 3
ACTION
AT
28
22202
PER
INFO

RID COPY
FILE VIR
758 WH8
FILE AND TO
CH
PREC DENCE

DESTROY SIG
f0222 Ja 18:55 140
SECRET 2220.18Z JUL 68 CITE JACOBRA 3363
PRIORITY DIRECTOR
MUNION

AN
ABX
MBI
STATION HAS BEEN ASKED BY LNYUMA IF WOFIRM HAD ANY
OBJECTIONS TO THE TRAVEL OF ROLANDO MASFERRE BY AUTOMOBILE
FROM MIAMI TO NEW YORK. UNLESS ADVISED TO THE CONTRARY
JACOBRA PLANS TO ADVISE LNYUMA THAT WE HAVE NO LEGAL GROUND
OBJECT. ADVISE PRIORITY.

SECRET
AP0

BT

CS COPY
22.502.68

SECRET
201-042669

___

14-00000
S. ANALYST

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. Svwa 10. 4. SATE

7. SovecE CRYPTOWYM. BATE OF 9. EVALUATION

6. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSENTRATED
11. BATE

DOCUMENT LISPOSITION
12- Choss REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TOMSFERRED TO
BI FILE .

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DU8 2
CIT ?
OCC 7
028-006-033/03
UF GA-30185
12 JUN 68
SUBJ TRIED TO RECTUIT AMSLOUCH/1,
201-351947 TO WORK FOR MIM IN CUBA.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET:

R 6806190489

FILE IN 201-42669

123an68

___

14-00000

FRI HOL
10 Jure 68(NY)
Subject-Rolando Arcadis
Masferrer Rojas
DOD (National Ageray Name Check,
3 may 68
Sulged-Masferrer
FBI doc
9 May 68 (Miami)
Re-Rolando Arcadio Masfeñer
Rozis
Bureau 2-156

___

14-00000

INFORMATION REPOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
(201-42661
NO FOREIGN DISSEY

S-E-C-R-E-T

COUNTRY Costa Rica/Haiti

100
9 February-4 March 1968
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
EVILLIGENC

REPORT NO. CS-311/02537-68

DATE DISTR. 15 March 1968

SUBJECT Indications by Fermando Yelo, Zaban Exile in
Costa Rica, that Eegotiations Between Lacudg
Starke, Costa Rican Righting Droremist, and
Polardo Masferrer, Cucan Zeile Involved in
-Plotting Against Haitian Goverment, sere Kot
Progressing Well

ACQ Costa Ric Jose
SOURCE (Rarch 19685
An official Costa Rican service.

FIELD NO. HRS-4108
t

1. (Field Comment: The following report should be read
in conjunction with TDCS-314/01096-68, HRS-4065 and
CS-311/02024-68, HRS-4099, which reported that Fernando
Melo Fontanills, a Cuban exile in Costa Rica, was serving as
an intermediary in negotiations between Ludwig Starke Jimenez,
a Costa Rican right-wing extremist, and Rolando Masferrer, a
Cuban exile in the United States who was involved in plotting
against the government of President Francois Duvalier of Haiti.
The negotiations dealt with a plan whereby Starke would pro-
vide a staging area for an invasion of Haiti by Haitian and
Cuban exiles under Masferrer's leadership. In return Mas-
ferrer, if successful, would subsequently support a move by
Starke against the Costa Rican Government. Kelo was reported
to be planning a trip to New York on 21 February 1968 to talk
with Masferrer and the latter's representative in the negotia-
tions, Father Diego Madrigal Alvarez.)

5,
2. When Melo returned to San Jose on 2 March after
visiting New York City and Miami, Florida, he was detained
and searched by security officials at the airport. Among
Melo's possessions the security officials found a letter
signed by Melo, addressed to Father Diego Madrigal, New York.
The letter was dated 9 February 1968, It sas typewritten on
letterhead stationery of Rogelio R. Pisto Impresos. (Costa
Rican Service Comment: Kelo sells printing equipment and
thus may have a business connection with the Pinto firm.)

(classification)
APMY NAVT
S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE DIA Wissen controlsj

AIR FBI 2 IANS
A
১১ Far Field Distribution see finet paragraph;
-INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CALLER
CA/2309 HRB-4108
TOTALS WH/COG/221 HUGLIS
TH/SOS (HUGLIB-S)
WH/MASA CS-311/02537-68
CA/PROP 1/MANA GRD/
#WH/COG/221 7/
IZ 2, CI 4, FI 3, CA 2, WH/COG 1,
9(1) 001
(20)
___

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEY
-2-
CS-311/02024-68
cooperation, culd use Costa Rican soil as a staging area for
an invasion of Haiti, to overthrow President Francois Duvalier.
successful, asferrer and his Haitian cocerts would then
supply funds and armament to Starke for his projected move
against the Trejos government.

3. Helo later inforped Oduber that he was planning to
go to Sew York City on 21 February, ostensibly to visit nem-
bers of his family. However, the true purpose of his visit
is to talk with Masferrer and Father Diego Kamuel Abilio
18 4269
Madrigal Alvarez, the priest who has represented Masferrer-
in the negotiations, through Melo, with Starke. Kelo
been commissioned by Starke to ascertain the quantity and
source of arms that the Hasferrer group will make available
to Starke if the group succeeds in overthrowing Duvalier.
Melo also is to find out what other assistance the Masferrer
group sill provide to Starke, how many Haitian and Cuban
exiles Masferrer vill send to Costa Rica, and when they will
arrive.

4. Nolo said that a Costa Rican visa already has been
obtained for Jacques Moringlane, a Haitian, who will be the
first of the group of Haitian and Cuban exiles to come to
Costa Rica to set up their staging area. Koringlane's visa
es obtained by Starke through Rodrigo Arauz Bonilla, who
until recently was the chief clerk (oficial Rayor of the
Ministry of Public Security.

6. (Field Comments Melo has the reputation locally of
being an inveterate intriguer and a braggart. Therefore, his
veracity is open to question. It is possible that the infor-
sation he has given to Oduber is to some extent exaggerated
or distorted. It is also possible that Starke will find Helo
to be a less than trustworthy intermediary.)

6. Field Dissons State Army Cincso (Also sent
Managua and Port-au-Prince).

7. (Headquarters Connent: An official Costa Rican Service
reported on 23 February 1968 that Fernando Melo Fontanils, left
San Jose for Miani and New York on 21 February 1968 vis LACSA
flight 620.)
0

NO FOREIGN DISSZK
___

14-00000
FBI doc
11 Mar 68 (Miami)
Re-alleged Play for
Haitian Frivasion front
Plafonte Brat
"Yiple""
Burean # 105-14078.

___

14-00000

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
COCUMENT CESTIF CATION
IS CROSS BREFERRED TO HIS FILE

2. BI FILE .
BATE
DATE
- EVALDATION

6. DATE PROCESSED
DOCUMENT DISPOSITIO
SFERRED TO

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFFPRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX DOB ?
CIT CURA
OCC ?
201-821979
HPS-04108
07 MAR 68
INVOLVED IN PPOTTING AGAINST THE COVT OF
PRFS DUVALIER IN HAITI. LTR INDICATING
NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN SUBJ AND LODIG STARKE
/201-767989/ HAD NOT PROGRESSED WELL

UFCHTPHNG

R6003261209

FILE IN 201-42169
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET

7 mar68
(7-4)

___

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SLOJECT OF DOCUMENT
COCLAEST IDENTIFICATION
2.
OF FILEM.
DOCUMENT SISPOSITI

IS CROSS REFERRED TO PerS FILE
IL COMPEONES PO
OF FILE.

201-042669
SEX DOS 7
CIT 7
OCC 2
100-300-017
DRC-1205?
CA MAR GA
FAI
PA
KNOWN AS THE BUTCHER OF THE ORIENTE PROV, A
CLOSE ASSOC OF BATESTA, A MASS MURDERER AND
SADIST, OWAER OF PREY GANGSTER GP, THE TIGERS,
USED BY CIA IN PREPARING THE BAY OF PIGS 14-
VASION AND AGAIN IN 67 OF THE UNSUCCESSFUL IN-
VASION OF MASTE, ESCAPED TO FLORIDA.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET

*6804120056

FILE IN 201-42669

69-401
4 maste

___

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSENTION
PERSONALIT NOTIFIED

L
SSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPES
20
STING ANGIOR INITIALS - SEEN BY

SECRET
EXCLUANG -

(When Filled in,
25/00
WANCE COPY
ப
SSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX
PEPRCOUCTION OF THIS COM KOMBID
YES8

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
A-REF TO FILE NO
DISSE B
ACTION
AT

PER
INFO

RID COPY
FILE VIR

WH8
FILE AND TO
CH
PREC DENCE

DESTROY SIG
f0222 Ja 18:55 140
SECRET 2220.18Z JUL 68 CITE JACOBRA 3363
PRIORITY DIRECTOR
MUNION

AN
ABX
MBI
STATION HAS BEEN ASKED BY LNYUMA IF WOFIRM HAD ANY
OBJECTIONS TO THE TRAVEL OF ROLANDO MASFERRE BY AUTOMOBILE
FROM MIAMI TO NEW YORK. UNLESS ADVISED TO THE CONTRARY
JACOBRA PLANS TO ADVISE LNYUMA THAT WE HAVE NO LEGAL GROUND
OBJECT. ADVISE PRIORITY.

SECRET
APD

BT

CS COPY
22.502.68

SECRET
201-042669

___

14-00000

S. ANALYST

SECRET
Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. SATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF 9. EVALUATION

6. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. TRANSFERRED TO
BI FILE .

PERTINENT INFORMATION

KASPERER, ROLANDO
201-047549
SEX M DOB ?

CIT CUBA
OCC ?
019-300-021
DBC -39554
11 DEC 68
FBI
97
PERNER CISTAN SENATOR HEWSPAPER EDITOR
LEADER MITORIOUS PRIVATE ARMY CUBA KNOWN
AS LOS TIGRES /THE TIGERS/

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

___

14-00000

:
FBI doc
27 Feb 68 (Miami)
Re-Aludes Perry Buza
Berean #105-14702

___

14-00000

: 201-823979
INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 21/CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
E-REF TO FILE NO. TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
FILE RIS RET. TO BRANCHO
PERSONNEL/URIT BOTSFIED
DESTROY OSIE.

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTIDE
ADVANCE COPY
WIT
SLOTTE
WHY RID COPY
FILE VR WH/COL, CICA/PES, C1/C2, Fly
5505
SECRET 2322382, FEB 68 CITE SAN JOSE 8815

DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE, MANAGUA, PORT NO PRISCE
JUFO HUMI
23FE357328
n
Aktronery acte inst
Jurabier 91

::
FERNANDO MELO FONTANILS (281-823979) CUBAN EXILE
RESIDING COSTA RICA, LEFT SAN JOSE FOR MIAMI AND NEW YORK
OF 21 FEB 68 VIA LACSA 620. ACCORDING TO HRS-4399 BEING
POUCHED ALL ADDRESSEES HE COMMISSIONED BY LUDVIG STARKE
JIMENEZ, COSTA RICAN ACTIVIST, TO DISCUSS WITH ROLANDO
201-042649
MASTERREX PLANS FOR REVOLUTIONARY MOVE AGAINST DUVALTER.

SECRET
SECRET

L
0-201-767889

D-101-823979
MICROFILMED
MAR 7 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER

AV

ABSTRACT
LEX
2352668

201-042669
___

14-00000
(When Filled inj
S. ANALYST

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

2. DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.

BISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. SATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTORVUS. DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

6. BATE PROCESPED
10. DISSEMINATED T
11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. Chess ΘΕΡERSES TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO
BI FILE .

PERTINENT INFORMATION

USFERPER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX DOB ?

CIT CUBA
OCC ?
019-009-008
HRS-04097
23 FEB 68

NEGOTIATING W/LUDWIG STARKE JIMENEZ /201-767
989/ RE MUTUAL SUPPORT FOR PLANNED REVOLI
TIONARY MOVEMENTS. CUBAN EXILE

ΗΤΡΗΝΗ

R6803072384

FILE IN 201-2169

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET
67-461
23 Feb 18

201-42661
___

14-00000

FBI doc
26 Jan 68 (Miami)
Re-Rolando arcadio Masferrer

#Bure #2-156

FBI doc
26 Dec 67 (Miami)
Re-Alleged Plar for Haitian
Invasion form Boat!"
B105-14078
___

14-00000
L
ALYST

SECRET
(When Filled fo

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
COCLAMENT DENTIFICATION

2. RS FILE NO.

3. BISPATCH DE SOURCE SOC.
२०.

7. SPACE CRYPTONTUD. BAYE 9. EVALUAT 100

6. BATE PROCESICO
10. DISSEMINATED CO
14. BATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
18. cress REFERPES TO THIS FILE

13. TeamSTEDOES T
8: FILE *.

PERTINENT INFORMATIO

MASFERRER ROJAS, POLANDO
201-042669
SEX DOB ?

CIT?
OCC 7
072-009-013
WAVE-00427
30 ΝΠΥ 67
IFG-09179
94
RE PLAN FOR ACTION IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET
6803771995
4. BATE

FILE IN 201-04269

17-46)
30 houl7
:
___

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO FILE
BESTRESS.
PRECEDENCE

-42669 CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSIGE
STAL COPIES
24
SECRET

PEPRODUCTION POCAMID STED
PERSONIT STIFIES

ACTIDO
C/WH/C065HID COPY
SLOTTE

FILE re DCI DOKI DCI (GOODWIN) DSP ASDP CSRF 5/20
SCRE 1718872 CITE NAVE 8281
DIRECTOR

YPIC MASFERRER TRIAL
371
PS Mit
ABSTRACT

17 Νεα 67 τι 95853
1. TRIAL TURNED OUT TO BE BO PROBLEM FOR AGENCY
OR STATION, DEFENSE PLAN TO TURN IT INTO ANTI-CIA CIRCUS
"WAS TOTALLY FRUSTRATED BY JUDGE CABOT'S FIRM RULING. AND
BUSINESS-LIKE APPROACH OF U.S. ATTORNEY MEADOWS. ANSVIRL-1
WAS NEVER CALLED AS WITNESS, SOR VERE ANY OF OTHER

FORMER AGENCY ASSOCIATES OR EMPLOYEES VHOM DEFENSE. HAD
ASKED TO HAVE SUBPOENAED. ONE PROSECUTION WITNESS ABOUT WHOM
WE HAD BEEN VORRIED, DAVID CABEZA, FORMER AGENT AND RECENTLYte
PERSISTENT HARASSER OF CIA AND JAVE, HANDLED HIMSELF

EXTREMELY VELL. COURT RULINGS PREVENTED DEFENSE FROM
LURING HIM INTO OPERATIONAL REVELATIONS DURING CROSS-EXAMINATION.

2. SIGNIFICANT LEGAL PRECEDENTS APPEAR TO HAVE BEEN
ESTABLISHED BY MANDER IN WHICH THIS TRIAL WAS CONDUCTED WHICH
CAS BE HELPFUL IN FUTURE LITIGATION INVOLVING AGENCY.
:
2.G, COURT ISSUED ORDER ON FIRST DAY OF TRIAL WHICH PRECLUDED
TAKING OF PHOTOGRAPHS IN COURTROOM AND RESTRICTED PUBLICATION
OF ANY TESTIMONY OR ARGUMENTS MADE OUT OF PRESENCE OF JURY.
سة

SECRET
Rolands MASFERRER..
201-42669

17970067

___

14-00000

SECRET
PAGE 2 JMWAVE 0281 SECRET
THE LATTER WAS MOST SIGNIFICANT RESTRICTION AS IT RELATED
DIRECTLY TO QUESTIONS INVOLVING CIA. U.S. ATTORNEY PUT FORTH
MOTION, WHICH COURT GRANTED, WHICH REQUIRED THAT QUESTIONS
TO WITNESSES ON CROSS-EXAMINATION WHICH MIGHT LEAD TO MENTION
OF CIA BE ASKED AFTER JURY HAD LEFT COURTROOM.
3. LOCAL PRESS COVERAGE WAS LIGHT AND FACTUAL. PRESS
SHOVED SO DESIRE TO EXPAND UPON OR INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS
OF CIA CONNECTION. AS FAR AS WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO DETERMINE,
THERE WAS NO NATIONAL PRESS COVERAGE OF TRIAL. INTEREST IN
TRIAL IN LOCAL CUBAN AND HAITIAN COMMUNITIES MINIMAL.
:
4. TRIAL REPRESENTS SETBACK FOR ROBERT K. BROWN. ONE
OF HIS LOCAL HENCHMEN, MARTIN CASEY, WAS CONVICTED. ANOTHER
OF HIS LOCAL HENCHMEN, RALPH EDENS, WAS PRESENT AS OBSERVER
DURING ENTIRE TRIAL AND WAS OVERHEARD BY FERENCE, MAKING ANTI-
CIA REMARKS AND ALLEGATIONS IN CONSULTATION WITH DEFENDANT MARTIN
CASEY AND DEFENSE COUNSEL NEGRETTI. NOTHING CAME OUT IN
TRIAL THAT BROWN COULD FIND OF MUCH USE IN BOOK HE IS
REPORTEDLY WRITING.
5.
LIKEWISE ABSOLUTELY NOTHING DEVELOPED IN TRIAL
THAT COULD PROVIDE ANY GRIST FOR JIM GARRISON'S ANTI-CIA HELL
L
SECRET
=
___

14-00000
:
SECRET
PAGE 3 JMWAVE 0281 SECRET
IN NEW ORLEANS.
6. CASTRO GOT NOTHING OUT OF TRIAL EITHER. ITS
VERDICT UNDERMINES HIS CONTENTION THAT U.S. GOVERNMENT
IS CONTINUALLY AIDING AND ABEITING EXILES IN SUBVERSIVE EFFORT
AGAINST CUBA.
7. ONLY IRONY ABOUT THIS TRIAL IS FACT THAT ITS
FAVORABLE OUTCOME TENDS TO UNDERMINE IN RETROSPECT ORIGINAL
AGENCY ARGUMENTS AGAINST HOLDING IT IN FIRST PLACE. VE BELIEVE
THAT OUR PREVENTIVE EFFORTS NEVERTHELESS SERVED VERY USEFUL
