1104-10076-10375
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8
SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

INFO: DDP, ADDP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, CI/CI 2, FI/INT, IW, WM 7, AD/CI 2, DD/1, AD/NE

SECRET 120292 DEC 12 08352 63 IN 78746
DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 3927
INTEL TYPIC
TDC:

SUPDATA: AMICE-14, FROM AMTRUNK-7 WITH PARA 1 FROM HUMBERTO

BERGARA MEMBER OF A DRE-SPONSORED INFILTRATION TEAM, WHO OBTAINED

THE INFORMATION FROM UNIDENTIFIED LOCAL FISHERMEN AND PARA 2 FROM

IRENE (MILIAN) THE WIDOW OF JUAN MANUEL (MILIAN), WHO RECEIVED THE

INFORMATION IN A CALL FROM MAGDALENA (MONTESINO), THE MOTHER OF LAZARO

CORALIO (ALEJANDRO) MONTESINO) PLEASE PROTECT SUBSOURCES.

RID: NO INDEX. FILED 120292

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: ARRESTS AND MILITIA VIGILANCE IN THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF

IN COMMENT:
TDCS
PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE
PRIORITY

RELEASING IND DATE DISTRIBUTED BASED ON:

LIAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This materiet contains latercetics affecting the Mahant polgan
794, the tonataision or rech ningn hoange le 18. US.C Soes
SIFICATION ... DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
(When Putic
COUNTRY
SUBJECT
REPORT NO. TUCS
CATE DISTR
:
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL
SOURCE
PRECEDENCE
REFERENCES
FIELD REPORT NO.
IN 78746

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. AS OF 5 DECEMBER 1963, THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF MATANZAS PROVINCE, PARTICULARLY THAT IN THE VICINITY OF RIO PALMA (N 23-01, W 80-54), WAS UNDER MILITIA SURVEILLANCE.

2. AS OF 9 DECEMBER, MANY PERSONS HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN MARTI, ITABO, AND MAXIMO GOMEZ, MATANZAS PROVINCE, AND MILITIA WERE ALL ALONG THE COASTLINE IN THIS AREA.

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVKEYWEST, USCG (MIAMI)

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAVE

OESOLFIE FUSION КОЕТО
