14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE OF ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MPIRES

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:	ARTIME; Buesa, Manuel
	201-0267437
	Volume XIII
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: Third Agency Documents

DATE	DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
7 AUG 1978 7 Aug 1978	
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
Leslie WIZEMAN	

SIGNATURE OF
REVIENING OFFICIAL:

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

14-00000
SECRET

8 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation with AMBIDDY-1

DATE: 7 January 1965, 2130 Hours

1. AMBIDDY-1 reported that Manolin Hernandez arrived
from Central America and reported that Vico Starke and
Frank Marshall, with the support of General Anastacio Somoza
of Nicaragua, were planning a coup against President Francisco
Orlich in Costa Rica. A-1 planned to depart Miami for Managua
at 0700 hours, 8 January on Lanica airline to check this infor-
mation with General Somoza and to attempt to ensure that his
equipment is not being used to carry out the coup. A-1 will
have his private communications pad and promised to send us a
message as soon as he talked with General Somoza and with the
Orlichs and Starke in Costa Rica.

2. A-1 agreed to try to return to New York on Saturday,
9 January, for a meeting with Mr. Archer (Chief, WH). A-1
vill call as soon as he arrives in New York at which time
arrangements will be made to bring him to Washington for the
meeting.

3. A-1 reported he and Al Burt had signed a non-aggression
pact. A-1 feels there is little to gain from his point of view
in continuing the squabble with Burt.

File:
AMBIDDY-1 201
Tel Conversations
Costa Rica
Fio
Press

Keptor D. Sanchez
WH/SA/AMWORLD
SECRET Facludes transtematic
decleetlicetion

14-00000
SEGRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT	DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.	5. DATE
7. SOURCE CRYPTOUTUS. BATE OF INFO.	8. EVALUATION
9. ANALYST	8. PATE PROCESSED	10. DISSEMINATED 18	11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE	13. TRANSFERRED TO
		FI FILE NO.
14- PERTINENT INFORMATION

ARTIME, MANUEL
201-267437
SEX M DOB ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?	019-300-003
	DBA-96789
	27 JAN 65
	P2

RE ALLEGATION BY ELOY GUTIERREZ PENOYO 201-
269349 OR MRR WAS WORKING DIRECTLY UNDER THE
ORDERS OF A COUNTERINTELL AGENCY OF US
AND THAT SUBJ WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR SINKING OF
SPANISH SHIP SIERRA ARANZAZU.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
4
SECRE

(7040)

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTA
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
LOTTED
TUSZO
TIME
ACTION
JMWAVE
INFO
Delulit/sri 3
VR, FILE,
AMB1004-11 201 13 FEB 05 IN 80247
Security
PRIOR DIR CITE WAVE 8261
TYPIC YOSITE AMWORLD
1. ANCLATTER/1 TOLD 13 FEB 65 BY FRANK FIORINI THAT MANUEL
ARTINE'S HOUSE AT 1270 NE 85TH STREET MIAMI WAS RANSACKED DURING
EVENING 12 FEB. ARTIME TOLD FIORINI THAT INTRUDERS HAD STOLEN
JEVELRY, NUMBER OF DOCUMENTS AND TELESCOPIC LENS RIFLE THAT FIORINI
MAD GIVEN ARTIME AS GIFT.

2. ARTIME ASKED FIORINI HELP HIM OUT BY GETTING IN TOUCH LOCAL
AUTHORITIES (UNSPECIFIED) WITH REQUEST THEY KEEP MATTER QUIET.
FIORINI SAID ARTIME DOES NOT WANT INCIDENT PUBLICIZED.
:
3. FOR SECURITY REASONS WAVE HAS HADE NO EFFORT OBTAIN
CONFIRMATION FROM LOCAL AUTHORITIES. NOWEVER, WAVE HAS RECEIVED NO
OTHER REPORT ON THIS MATTER AS OS PREPARATION THIS REPORT.
SECRET
note
A
Antime conformed the
3. Ever war aller
3 Fel no
sensitive facement to he
SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TAL COP
SECRET
BEPRODUCTICAL ITED
PERSONIFILO
ACTION
JNWARE
DC/WH/SA 3
2. FILE DDP
ASEANCE CONT
SECRET 1815892
DIR DESENSITIE WAVE 8420
AT TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
REF WAVE 8419 (1~83360)
IDEN: JOSE ANTONIO MOLE ROSALES.
SECRET
CFN

A-1.001
18 FEB 65 IN 83422

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
3
SECRET
DE....
БЕРЕОС АС
FEES,AR
ACTION
JHNAVE
INFO
re/WA/SA 3
R. FILE, DDP
SECRET 181589Z
DIR CIS VAVE 8419
ADVANCE COP
TIE
CI
SI
B
......
SLSTTER
SEO BS

AMB1004-12-11 8336.0
Security

RYDS TYPIC YOBITE ANWORLD
PRESENSITIZE
VAVE 8261
(IN)
1. ANCLATTER/I PROVIDED ADDITIONAL DETAILS REF 15 FEB 65 BY
STATING RANSACKING AMBIDDY/I'S HOUSE ACTUALLY OCCURRED SOME TINE
BETWEEN 1-3 FEB AND DISCOVERED BY MAID LUCY ACOSTA 3 FEB. FIORINI
HOWEVER LEARNED OF RANSACKING ABOUT 1330 HOURS 13 FEB WHEN RCVD
PHONE CALL FROM ANWORLD INTEL CHIEF (IDEN) WHO TOLD FIORINI THAT
ALTHO HOUSE BURGLARIZED 8 FEB HE DID NOTHING UNTIL FIRST SPEAKING:
WITH ANBIDDY/I WHO OUT. TOWN. AMBIDDY-1 RECOMMENDED IDEN CONTACT
FIORINI WITH REQUEST FIORINI CONTACT LOCAL AUTHORITIES IF ABLE
DO SO WITHOUT PUBLICITY.

2. FIORINI, AFTER RECEIPT TELEPHONE CALL FROM IDEN CONTACTED
PERSONAL FRIEND FRANK CAMPBELL, FORMER CHIEF INTEL. METRO, WHO
ADVISED FIORIN CONTACT POLICE CAPTAIN LEE NAPIR USING CAMPBELL'S
NAME. FIORINI, WHO ALSO KNOWN TO CAPTAIN NAPIR, CONTACTED NAPIR
"WITH IDEN. NAPIR PROMISED MAKE INVESTIGATION WITHOUT MAKING
"REPORT."

3. MTG 15 FEB IDEN SHOWED NAPIR 24 PHOTOGRAPHS DEPICTING
SECRET
SE

14-00000

SECRET
ICE R

BROKEN DOOR AND LARGE NUMBER DOCUMENTS SCATTERED OVER FLOOR.
ALSO GAVE NAPIR FOLLOWING LIST MISSING ARTICLES: (A) ROLEX WPISI
WATCH: (5) ANOTHER INEXPENSIVE WRIST WATCH (C) RING WITH FOUR TWO
CARAT DIAMONDS AND LARGE ZIRCON; (D) IWO EIGHTEEN CARAT GOLD NECK-
LACES; (E) ONE WOMAN'S IDENTIFICATION BRACELET, AND (F) ONE HIGH
POWERED 300 MAGNUM RIFLE WITH TELESCOPIC LENS AND TRIGGER GUARD
INSCRIBED "AMBIDDY/I, LEADER OF REVOLUTION, FRANK FIORINI."

ALTHO SOME DOCUMENTS TAKEN FROM A/I'S HOUSE IMPORTANT PAPERS KEPT
HOUSE SAFE WHICH NOT DISTURBED. IDEN WHO CONDUCTING OWN INVESTI-
GATION, TOLD PAPIR IDEN SUSPECTED HOUSE REPAIRMAN WHO RECENTLY
WORKED A/I'S HOUSE VALDO BADO PEREZ, 1285 HV 29TH STREET TERRACE,
MIAMI. BADO WHO HAS NO REGULAR MEANS INCOME RECENTLY BOUGHT WIFE
60 CORVAIR (65 FLORIDA LICENSE ID-4378) AND PAST WEEK MADE PERSONAL
GIFTS NUMBER FRIENDS. ALSO PURCHASED FOUR NEW TIRES HIS OWN 61
FALCON (65 FLORIDA LICENSE D-4302).

4. IDEN ALSO LOCATED JEWELRY STORE 964 VEST FLAGLER STREET WITH
AVI'S ROLEX WRIST WATCH FOR SALE. IDEN HAD WIFE A/I VISIT STORE
AND PURCHASE ROLEX FOR $200 CASH PLUS $45 STILL OWED SALESMAN NAMED
GUILLERMO TABRAUE. WIFE A/I ABLE IDENTIFY WATCH BY TWO MARKS BACK
WATCH. NAPIR PROMISED IDER WOULD HANDLE INVESTIGATION JEWELRY

SECRET
0

14-00000
:
SECRET

SIORE AND SUGGESTED IDEN PUT SURVEILLANCE CUBAN COFFEE SHOP
HIAMI EL GOZO.

5. ANCLATTER/I SAID THAT IDEN HAS NO CURRENT INFO INDICATE
"ESPIONAGE" OR "REVOLUTIONARY MOTIVATION" BEHIND ROBBERY.

6. INSPECTOR (CAPTAIN) F. L. NAPIER ASSIGNED DETECTIVE BUREAU
MIANI POLICE DEPARTMENT POSSIBLY IDENTICAL CAPT NAPIR PARA TVO
ABOVE. FRANK CAMPBELL PROBARLY IDENTICAL FRANK KAPPEL FORMER METRO
CHIEF INTEL WHO RESIGNED WORK WITH STATE RACING COMMISSION.

7. NO SPECIFIC WAVE TRACES WALDO BADO PEREZ ALTHO ONE
VALDO PEREZ REPORTED MAY 62 AS HAVING HELPED ORGANIZE PROPAGANDA
AND MILITARY PLANS LIBERATION CUBA IN CUBAN LIBERATION ARMY (UFG
992; 14 MAY 62). VAVE TRACES GUILLERMO TABRAUE INDICATE HE POSSIBLY
IDENTICAL GUILLERMO TABRAU NUECER (281-283992)。

SECRET
CFN
L
SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSOO TEFLED
ACTION
lit
SAN JOSE
DC/WA/SA 3
., DOP
SECRET 2014002
DIR
DESENSITIZE VE CITE SJOS 7483
SECRET
ADVANCE copy
......
DEAT TYPIC YOSITE ANWORLD	SLOTTED
201
خدا
....

khüntTED

84948
MANUEL ARTINE BUESA ARRIVED SAN JOSE 17 FEBRUARY ON PAA FLIGHT
501 FROM ΠΙΑΝΙ.
SECRET
CFR

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL L...
SECRET
PERSON/URIT NOTIFIED
ACTION
JIKWAVE
Pc/WH/SA3
.FILE DP
ASEANCE COPY
......
SLOTTED
A-1 201
S
ECRET 2019272
DIR
DESENSITIZE VE WAVE 8522
YBA TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
REF: WAVE 8521 (IN 85083)
IDEN: JOSE ANTONIO MOLE ROSALES
SECRET

REPRODUCTION POOHIBITED
123

CI
TIME

20 ECD 65 IN 85084

PR

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
Advance Cor
SLOTTED
.....
6
EC
ACTION
JMWAVE
INFO
DC/WH/SA-3
VR. FILE, DDP
S SECRET 201927Z
DIR
DESERTIZZATE WAVE 8521
IT TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
REFS: A. WAVE 8261 (IN
MB1004-1001
Security
B. WAVE 8419 (ING)
C. WAVE 8420 CIN

20FEB 65 IN 84083
1. AMCLATTER/I, AS FOLLOW UP REFS, REPORTED 19 FEB 65 THAT
MIAMI POLICE CAPTAIN NAPIR PHONED FIORINI 18 FEB AND ARRANGED FOR
FIORINI AND AMWORLD INTEL CHIEF (IDEN) MEET WITH TWO POLICE
SERGEANTS FORM POLICE HEADQUARTERS AT 1145 NW 11TH STREET MIAMI.
MTG HELD FROM 1330 TO 1430 HOURS 18 FEB MAYFLOWER RESTAURANT NORTH
MIAMI AVENUE AND 36TH STREET WITH SERGEANTS (FNU) DOWDA AND (FNU) MCCRACKEN
ΕΛΕΟΣ Ε
OF POLICE BURGLARY SQUAD. BOTH SERGEANTS SAID NAPIR INSTRUCTED THEM
"KEEP CASE OFF REPORT". THEN TOLD SERGEANTS THAT AFTER CAREFUL
CONSIDERATION HE AND AMWORLD BOTH CONCLUDE ROBBERY WAS "G-2
SPONSORED", POINTED UP FACT $500 LEICA CAMERA AND TWO $300 TAPE
RECORDERS VISIBLY ACCESSIBLE. NOT TOUCHED. ALSO SUSPECT SOME DOCUMENTS
PHOTOGRAPHED. SURMISE INTRUDERS WANTED GIVE OUTWARD APPEARANCE ROBBERY.

2. FIORINI SAID ADDITIONAL INFO ON SUSPECT WALDO BADO PEREZ
INDICATE HE FORMER BRIGADE MEMAER. PORICE SERATANTE AND I AM

14-00000
นิ้ว COULD HAVE CASED HOUSE FOR SOMEONE ELSE.

3. ACCORDING FIORINI DAPIN INSTRUCTED IDEN GIVE COMPLETE
DETAILS IN WRITING OF STOLED RIFLE AND MAIL REPORT TO HIM.

NAPIR WANTS REPORT POSTMARKED AND ALLEGEDLY WOULD DISCLOSE
CONTENTS ONLY TO CLEAR AMWORLD ANY COMPLICITY OR RESPONSIBILITY
EVENT RIFLE USED BY UNKNOWN KARTY SOME FUTURE CRIME.
SECRET
JOSE ANTONNO Junie
ROSALES

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ACTION
CARACAS
Dchoulsa 3
VR. FILE, DOP, C/WN
SECRET231620Z
SECRET
PERSOO TEFLED
ADVANCE COPY
......
SLOTTED

TIME
CI
SI
B
......
FUDED
NS

DIR INFOMED LIVE PACY SJOS CITE CARA 0003
KAR TYPIC AMWORLD YOBITE
23 FEB 65 IN 85926
MANUEL ARTIME AND RAFAEL QUINTERO ARRIVED CARA FROM PACS 20

FEB PAA 513. PLANS REMAIN CARA UN 24 OR 15 FEB WHEREUPON
WILL DEPART FOR COSTA RICA.
SECRET
CFN

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES

1.
SEGRET
PERTID
.......
きょうまき

BERAODUCTION PRO-AFED
ECRET 24 138ez
DIR PACY CITE SJOS 7468
DEAT TYPIC YOBITE ANWORLD

629.
201
24 Εεο 65 IN 86580
d
MANUEL ARTIME BUESA LEFT SAN JOSE 20 FEBRUARY FOR PACY ON LACSA
SECRET

SECRET
Si

14-00000

8 March 1985

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Fhase-out of ARTINE Autonomous Group

1. On the night of 5 March 1965, the case officer for
Manuel ARTINE Buesa met with him and outlined the policy
decision reached by the 303 Committee on 4 March. ARTIKE
vas told the decision was to terminate our operational
relationship in as friendly and cooperative manner as
possible, but not later than 1 May 1965. The case officer
had been empowered to convey this information and to con-
duct an exploratory discussion of the problems and possible
solutione connected with a phase-out progran. The two
main points the United States Government was concerned
with were (a) fair but reasonable demobilisation support
to the personnel of the autonomous group, and (b) ARTINE'.
assistance in insuring that the balance of power in Central
America vas not upset, particularly by preventing the
weapons of his group from falling into the hands of
political extremists or free-booters.

8. ARTINE had been on notice for several months that
a phase-cat night be ordered at any time, and had an inkling
that the decision had been made because his regular monthly
subsidy had not been received on schedule. He had obviously
given the matter considerable thought and made up his mind
as to his course of action when he arrived at the meeting.
He began the discussion by summarizing the things he might
have done had he been so inclined. Among the possibilities
mentioned, he included loading up his troops and weapons
and taking over Haiti as a base against Cuba, intervening
in Costa Rica to bring down the libera, PLN administration
in favor of a rightist junta of dissidents, or throwing in
completely with General Anastasio A in Nicarague the
weapons, personnel and equipment of the autonomous group.
Be has the capability of fielding an infantry battalion
reinforced with artillery (4.2 mortars), supported by air
and maritis elements, with a cadre of trained and combat-
experienced Cubans, provided he teams up with an organisation

SECRET

14-00000

-2-
who can furnish about 1,000 men to flesh out the unit.
Case officer acknowledgwu laat ve recognized his potential
for harmful action, had considered it thoroughly, and
ARTIME said
hoped he would not do anything of the kind.
he had also considered all the possibilities and concluded
there was no point in his being childish and trying to
"bite us about the ankles."

3. ARTIME accepts the decision and will cooperate
in a phase-out progran. He does not understand the
rationale, and, of course, does not agio with the
decision, but he acknowledges our prerogative to make it.
If we really wish still to be friends, he is willing,
just as he told Mr. FitzGerald originally. He asks only
that we help him make it possible to remain friendly and
makes two requests from us: (a) help take care of his men.
and their families until they can rehabilitate and
resettle themselves, and (b) do everything possible to
got his parents out of Cuba.

4. The major elements to be considered in a phase-
out vere discussed with the following results:

a. Personnel. The first priority is support
payments to dependents which were due 1 March in
the total amount of $100,00. This must be cone
soonest if ARTINE is to maintain control of the
situation. The next most inmediate problem is.
re-entry permission for fifteen of his men who have
been stranded in Nicaragua trying to return to the
United States since. December. These men were ex-
filtrated "black" from the United States with our
assistance and require special authority for...
re-entry from Department of State and Department of
Justice, which we thought was arranged in early
January.

The denobilisation plan proposed by ARTIME
seened as realistic and effective as could be hoped
for. Pe proposes to return the bulk of his mon,
approximately 200, to the United States during March
and give them one month's pay on 1 April as a mustering
out payment to support then and their families while
they seek other employment. The balance of his men,
less than 100, will be held in Central America for
one month longer as a security and administrative
force muster the group's equipent at Monkey Point
from which disposition can be made during the month

SECRET

14-00000

-3-
of April. The security force will be returned
during April and will be paid a mustering out pay-
ment on 1 May. This will terminate the project.

The cover story which ARTINE intends to use
for demobilization is to inform his nen that their
mothership is out of commission and will require about
six voors for repairs. This is true enough so that
it will be believed. He will then grant leave to all
men with dependents to get their personal affairs in
order before operations commence again. He will
publicize the fact that it is less expensive and
better for morale to send them on leave than to have
men sitting around the camps with no operations to
run. When all the first contingent are back home,
individual notice will be given each to start looking
for other work as operations have been postponed.
They will be told that the salary payment of 1 April
will be the last one and should be considered as a
mustering out bonus. ARTINE feels this method will
soften the impact and lover the noise level as the
men will be home with their families and scattered
throughout the community instead of being in an
organized group in Central America when they realize
they are being demobilized.

b. Funda. ARTINK had done his homework and
brought with him facts and figures upon which phase-
eut costs could be estimated. These cost estimates
are outlined below:
1 March - $100,000
Dependents support and
salaries
5,000 Travel from Central America
to U.S. for approx. 200 men
50,000 Accrued debts due 1 March,
mainly food and other expenses
for camps in Central America
---
$175,000 (In lieu of regular monthly
subsidy of $225,000)

1 April - $100,000 Mustering out payment for
200 men and salaries for
security and administrative.
details
12,500 Travel from Central America
to U.S. for approx. 100 men
12,500 Estimated food and other camp
expenses

SEGRET

14-00000
L

1 May - $ 50,000 Mustering out payments for
approx. 100 men and final
contractual obligations of
project
$50,000

c. Weapons. ARTINE agreed that it would be in
nobody's interest for his weapons to fall into the wrong
hands. He was asked for ideas on disposition of the
arms and came up with the following suggestion which
appears to be an excellent one. The mothership, XV
BANTA MARIA, is in need of repairs and must go into a
shipyard. Tentative arrangements have been made to
put her in the yards at Galveston, Texas, some time
in March or April. ARTIME can order his security detail
to store the arus aboard the ship for "security" reasons
before she leaves for the yard. They will simply re-
main on board when the ship leaves and we can take
control of the ship and the weapons from that point on.

d. Maritime,

(1) MV SANTA MARIA. See above. The ship
vould be sailed from Monkey Point with a contract
crew supplied by Chester, Blackburn, & Roder, Inc.
of New York, who are agents for the ship's owner,
Libernic Corporation, a CIA proprietary company.
One of ARTINE's senior officers would accompany
the ship as his representative, "with orders to
turn over control of it and the arms upon its
arrival at Galveston. CIA officers, possibly
documented as Customs officials, would accept
custody and Office of Logistics could recover the
weapons and any other equipment which might be
shipped by this method. The ship would then be
disposed of according to Headquarters wishes at
any time after 17 April when the charter arrange-
ment with General SOMOZA expires and the ship
legally reverts to control of the owner.

(2) Swifts, V-20's, Boston Whalers, rubber.
toate and other operational craft are all owned,
