1104-10066-10010

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
30-2
PAGE
1
OF
PAGEE
2

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
DATE-TIME GROUP
1618272
CITE
DIRECTOR
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
125981
CONF:

INFO: FILE ELLR8, IP/AMS, LA&OLC,

TO: [LISBON] INFO LONDON MEXICO CITY. Y

RYBAT UNINTEL RNVIEW Y

1. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SELECT COMMITTEE ON
ASSASSINATIONS WHO CURRENTLY INVESTIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES
SURROUNDING ASSASSINATIONS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND DR. MARTIN
LUTHER KING HAS TOLD STATE THAT THEY INTEND TO PURSUE LEADS IN
PORTUGAL, UK AND MEXICO RELATING TO JAMES EARL RAY, CURRENTLY
SERVING TIME FOR KING MURDER. THEY BASING THIS INTEREST ON
INFORMATION THAT RAY WAS IN LISBON BRIEFLY IN MAY 1968, SHORTLY
BEFORE HIS APPREHENSION IN LONDON IN JUNE 1968. 4

2. MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR
OF COMMITTEE SAYS SELECT COMMITTEE TOLD STATE THAT HE WANTS TO
ESTABLISH "CORDIAL RELATIONSHIP" WITH APPROPRIATE PORTUGUESE
NATIONAL POLICE AND HOPES TO ENLIST THEIR ASSISTANCE INCLUDING
ACCESS TO THEIR FILES AND IN LOCATING AND INTERVIEWING POTENTIAL
WITNESSES. 4

3. DEPARTMENT HAS SOLICITED EMBASSY SUGGESTIONS AS TO HOW
BLAKEY SHOULD PROCEED. 4
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

**DO NOT REPRODUCE
RETURN TO CIA**

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 06494

---

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE

PAGE
2
OF
PAGES
2

CLASSIFICATION
- SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
DATE-TIME GROUP
CITE
DIRECTOR
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CONF: INFO: FILE
12598)

4. WISH TO CALL ABOVE TO ADDRESSEES' ATTENTION IN EVENT
STATIONS ARE SOLICITED FOR ADVICE OR ASSISTANCE. RTACTION IS
COOPERATING FULLY WITH BLAKEY AND COMMITTEE INCLUDING ALLOWING
THEM ACCESS TO DIRECTORATE RECORDS, AFTER SUITABLE SANITIZATION
FOR SOURCES AND METHODS. HOWEVER, BELIEVE COMMITTEE'S EFFORTS
TO INTERVIEW POLICE AND WITNESSES AND RESULTING USEFUL INFORMATION
OBTAINED, IF ANY, IS LARGELY OVERT FUNCTION WHICH CAN BEST BE
HANDLED BY LEGATTS OR OTHERS WHO WOULD ALSO BE IN A POSITION TO
BE PUBLICLY QUOTED OR IDENTIFIED IF NECESSARY. 4

5. STATIONS EXPECTED TO PROVIDE EMBASSY BEST ADVICE IF
SOLICITED BUT REQUESTED TO AVOID INVOLVING STATION OFFICERS IN
NEGOTIATIONS EVEN IN THEIR COVER CAPACITIES. IF CIRCUMSTANCES
SUCH THAT THIS UNAVOIDABLE, PLEASE ADVISE HQS BY CABLE SO THAT
THE MATTER CAN BE APPROPRIATELY HANDLED WITH BLAKEY AND
DEPARTMENT. 4
ORIG: O/SA/DO/O {SOVERN}; COORD: OLC {CUMMINS}, DC/LA {CLAUDER},
MGSB {HAWKINS}
C/LA/{EX} DX/EUR/BC {SEEMOON}, C/EUR/IB {BERGER}: AUTH:

SA/DO/O {KATROSH}: REL: DC/EUR {ESTES}.

DATE: 14 NOVEMBER 1977
ORIG: MASOVERN
UNIT: O/SA/DO/9/
EXT: 1542

DC/EUR

RELEASING OFFICER
OLE-
DX/EUR/BC
C/EUR/IB
COORDINATING OFFICERS
DC/LA/
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
SA/DO/O

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PIBITEDE 2 IMPDET
RV.
