104-10186-10410 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

27 SECRET REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

16-26 PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED
TIME
SAN SALVADOR
ACTION INFO
WHI VR. FILE DIP, WIKAL, CAZ, CA/PROP, CI.CiloPS, C1/C2, Fi, FilINT, 8006

SECRET 201402
2126
DIR INFO MEXI WAVE CITE SALY 5513 WH DIN CUBA

REF A) HSSW-2195 (NOT SENT MEXI, WAVE) 20 JAN 65 IN 63642
B) DIR-7501
C) DIR-74952
SALY
(SAL 52564)
ICS SS SB
FILES AR
IS LOC
ES CA
CAS
S

1. AMBASSADOR DELADISE FOLLOW UP APPROACH TO PRESENT
Cuban Defector
RIVERA PENDING RECEPT OF LEXI GOVT REACTION TO SURFACING.
HE UNDERSTANDABLY WAR OF LETTING FIVERA TOO ENTHUSED OVER
PROPOSAL WHEN AMANA MERICAN REACTION OF SURFACING RIGHT
TORPEDO OF. 2126

2. WHILE CALVELLAS PAPER RECEIVED MEF A FILL
MAKE INTERESTING FREDO HE NOT CLEAR ON UND SLATED TO
PRESENT IT. ASSUMES GOES AINGFIELD PRESENT
REQUEST CASS State CuBom defecton MATTER THEN
BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO FURTHER DEBRIEFING 16-26
SSTATION
3. 45-3701935-529, SATION

FEELS IT WOULD BE UNDESIRCABLE SURFACE NAMES OF A TRAINEES
FOR FOLLOWING REASONS:

JACKET

GIBR

LEGRIE ING3642
Thie 2
A. WORLD HAVE 10 ARREST ALL PERSONS MENTIONED ON
Delicta
INFO. ALTHO
IT WOULD APPEAR HAT DOES NOT BELIEVE

DO RIVERA INDICATED THAT HE WILLING TO MAKE THE ARRESTS, STATION 16-26
INCLINED TO DOUBT THAT HE WOULD FOLLOW THROUGH DUE FEAR OF
STIRRING UP SALVADORANT LEFTISTS, AD LACK OF JURIDICAL GROUNDS
Delicta
FOR PROSECUTION.

B. ALTHO HAS KNOWLEDGE THAT AT LEAST 75 SALVADORANS
RECEIVED GAN TRAINING PETWEEN APRIL 1953 AND AFRIL 1964, HE WAS
ABLE TO FURVISH ONLY 35 NACIES. OF THESE, LESS THAN HALF ARE
KNOWN TO 53 TRUE MANES. WE THUS FEEL THAT IT WOULD BE BETTER
NOT TO MENTION ANY OF THE GAN NAMES, STAND ON THE 75 FIGURE,
Delictor
AND IPLY THAT HAS MADE NAMES OF ALL 75 AVAILABLE TO

DES WHO PRESUMAELY AWAITING PROFITIOUS TIME TO ROUND THEM UP.
C. GAN TRAINEES HAVE BEEN ACTIVE SINCE RETURN FRON
CUBA AND ONLY RECENTLY STEPS EEKS TAKEN BY FUAR MILITARY
asset
COMMISSION TO REACTIVATE THEM. SINCE IN KEY POSITION
TO REPORT ON THIS BUILDUP, THERE IS GOOD CHANCE OF PASSIVE INFO
INFO AT LATER DATE WHICH WOULD FERIT INEN TO CATCH WHOLE GROUP
RED HANDED WITH EVIDENCE ON WHICH THEY COULD BE PROSECUTED.
Rejector
INFO COULD SE USED AT TIGE THE TO SOLSTER GOES CASE.

SECRET

81BR

JACKET ING3642

Arleden 16-26
I INTEL AGENS SALVADOR EMICO SION CONTENIG
MENTION IN TESTIMONY (PAGE 55 OF OP. PAPER) THAT

CUBANS ALSO RECRUITED SALVADCRANS AS INTEL AGENTS AND SURFACE
Taised
Ton CASE DOSSIER AS EXIFLE, WITHOUT MENTIOVING
CASES. THIS COULD AVOID SURFACING OF
20 WOULD PROBABLY TURN INTO HOSTILE AGENT VIS-A-VIS
STATION IS HIS ME ENTIONED. SURFACING OF CASE SHOULD

BE PRECEDED BY AFREJI

5. RE FADE 55 OF DRAFT CAS PAPER, WE RECOMMEND DELETION
OF DGI ESTATE THAT CUES PLANNING AGGRESSION AGAINST Ch..
16-26
ΤΟ STATION ΑNOWLEDGE IT HAS NO BASIS IN FACT AND COULD
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE FOR PROP PURPOSES OF PAPER.

6. IF FOJECITING REOU TENDATIONS APPROVED BY HOS, STATION
REWISE SES FOLLOWING ONLY TO TO 10 JES APPROVAL:
A. KICKS GOES KICKS OFF OPERATION DY ARESHING PALICIPALS IN
Tangt MS WITH ANDER LEAST THAT

EVIDENCE OF EXTENSIVE CLA20 KLEARNS TO OAS.
B. MALLIKAT A CANESSIVE THE!

DTAILS OF COCAN SUASIVE EFFOR: ILVADOS AD
C

BR

ING3642
Dipt stale

PETITIONS AVAILABLE TO TESTI.
C ayb Stile INGRESSOMEISTRIBUTES REVIER RAPID OF
REF A PAPER FOR STUDY BY CAS E.IBERS.
Afictor
D. THEN IS MADE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.

7. REQUEST COMMENTS.
SECRET
CFN

JACKET
