104-10183-102612 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Rele
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
INFORMATION PROHIBITED
SECRET
SECRET 30221Z
DIR CITE SALV 5312
DYVOUR PERUMEN AXMUG
REFS A. SALU 53^3 (IN83009)*
30 SEP SLIN 84511

B. DIR 53322

02
1. LANGOSCH AND AMMLUC 1, ONCE EACH ALONE ANE ANE ONCE TOGETHER SAY JUMAVE 1
02
MORNING OF SEPTEMBER JAVE 1 TOOK SAME POSITION AS PARA 5 A
DENIED KNOWING ANUG DESPITE CASE OFFICER RELATIONSHIP, REFUSED DISCUSS
ANYTHING ABOUT CUBAN INTEL, AND DECIDED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START
LIFE ANEW.

02
2. OBTAINING TRUTH FROM JUNAVE I WILL BE TIME CONSUMING. HE FULLY
AWARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROBABLY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE
RELEASE AND PROBABLY FEARS ADMISSION OF HIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP
HIM. SALV COVT MUST CONVINCE HIM HE WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS. HE OF
DURIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO ABOUT PAST ACTIVITIES
OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEREST AS AGENT IF HE
CAN BE TARGETTED AGAINST CURAN INTEL OR POES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE
DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGAINST MINUS TACTS. IF HE SHOULD
BE DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONMENT WOULD COVER RECRUITMENT AND WOULD TEND TO
ENHANCE HIS VALUE: PROBABLY WOULD BE MOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SIL
INCLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.

SECRET

3182

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IN
PAGE
3. AS ARE STATING MOST IMPORT TO PROTECT CUBAN EQUITY IN
20 JUMAVE 1 AND OF THAT PROMISE. THIS IF COULD BE PROTECTED ADVERSELY
BY SPREAD OF NEWS ABOUT AMUG EFFORTS ON BEHALF OF KUTAK TO EFFECT
RECRUITMENTS. BECAUSE OF VALUE OF JUMAVE 2. PREFER FOR PRESENT NOT
TO PROCEED AGAINST OTHERS WHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING, AFTER JUMAVE 1
IS PRODUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTERVAL KUTAK CAN PROCEED WITH 24
RECRUITMENT EFFORTS AGAINST OTHERS EITHER UNILATERALLY OR WITH LIAISON
DEPENDING ON DEVELOPMENTS.
4. PROCEEDING WITH ARREST OF GUERRILLEROS IN INED IN CUBA PROBABLY
WOULD BE BENEFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIBUTED TO AMUG. IN ADDITION
TO BENEFITS OF CA PLAY, SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DOUBLED
AND TARGETTED AGAINST GUERRILLA COUPE OR PORT.
5. APPRECIATE REF E TO WHICH WILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FATHER
01,02
PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS WITH JUHILLI AND POSSIBLY PRESIDENT
SECRET
01
* JUHILLI ARRETE
5314
WHEN LANGOSCH MEETS JUANAVE
SECRET

3182
