14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS,
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: Goodpasture, Ann L.

INCLUSIVE DATES: 10 Feb 1944 - 28 June 1973
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: Office of Personnel
ROOM: 5F13
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE 
RECEIVED
DATE
RETURNED
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

6/26/78   6/28/78      DAN Hardway  Dan Hardway

THIS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
DATE PREPARED
28 June 1973
1. SERIAL NUMBER
MAME (Last-First-Middle)
057303 GOODPASTURE, Ann L.
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION Disability Retirement
Under CIA Retirement & Disability
System for ESL
5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
Regular
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
YEAR
06 30 73
7. FAN AND NSCA
VTO V
V TO OF
6 FUNDS
Public Law. 88-643
Section 231-
CTO V
CF TO CF
3227-0183-0000
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C.
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDO/CI Staff
Development Complement

11. POSITION TITLE
Ops Officer
12. POSITION NUMBER
13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
9997
D
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)
GS
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01
16. GRADE AND STEP
13 7
17 SALARY OR RATE
$ 23,642

18. REMARKS
Subject has been on Extended sick leave & Disability retirement
since 14 June 1972

cc: Finance and Security
18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED
18B SIGNATURE OF CARPER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED

M. D. McCallum, CI Staff 6/28/73

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
19 ACTION 20 EMPLOY 21. OFFICE CODING
CODE
CODE
45 40

NUMERIC
ALPHABETIC
22 STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. NOOTRS 25. DATE OF BIRΤΗ
MO
CODE
26. DATE OF LET
MO
Y
27 DATE OF SRAJE
MO DA

281
29. SPECIAL
REFERENCE
-I
-ORGN
LOME
RETIREMENT DATA
CODE
HONE
1-5 PT.
2-10 PT
42 LEAVE CAT 43
O-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
41
CODE
FEDERAL TAX DATA

1- YES
2 NO
30.
CODE
36 SERY COMP DATE
MO
31 SEPARATION 32 CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
DATA CODE
DA YR
TYPE
MO
DA
37. LONG. COMP DATE 38. CAR/RESV.
PROV/TEMP
EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED

44
-FARN EXECUTED: CODE
1-1FS
2-NO
39
CODE
LEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE
O-WAIVER
OPT
-NME SOCIAL SECURITY NO
HEALTH INS CODE
STATETAXDATA
CODE NO. PAR STATE CODE
EMEMP
35. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
46 OP APPROVAL
DATE APPROVED

7-5-73 7473
FORM
4-72 1152
SECRET
==
14-00000

4 September 1973

Miss Ann L. Goodpasture
4200 Cathedral Avenue, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20016

Dear Miss Goodpasture:

As you bring to a close your active career of
service to your country, I join your friends and
colleagues in wishing you well in your retirement.

It takes the conscientious efforts of many
people to do the important work of this Agency. You
leave with the knowledge that you have personally
contributed to our success in carrying out our mis-
sion. Your faithful and loyal support has measured
up to the high ideals and traditions of the Federal
service.

May I extend to you my sincere appreciation
for the important work you have done.

Sincerely,

/s/ W. E. Colby
W. E. Colby
Director

Originator: /s/ John F. Blake
Director of Personnel

Distribution:
O - Addressee
1 - D/Ters
1 OPF
1 ROB
1 RUB Reader
OP/RAD/ROB/WFM/1ks
14-00000

6 September 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OPS

THROUGH : Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT : Career Intelligence Medal
for Miss Ann L. Goodpasture

The Honor and Merit Awards Board is pleased to
notify you that the Career Intelligence Medal has been
approved for Miss. Ann L. Goodpasture. You are requested
to inform her of the award and of the security consid-
erations contained in the attached memorandum from the
Office of Security. Arrangements for presentation may
be made with the Executive Secretary, Honor and Merit
Awards Board, extension 3645, room 412, Magazine
Building.

/s/ R 1. Austin, Jr.
R. L. Austin, Jr.
Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Board
Att

Distribution:
0 & 1 Addressee
1 OPF w/forms 382 & 600
1 Exec Sec/HMAB
1 Recorder/HMAB
78702
14-00000

REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD
DATE
14 August 1973

The Honor and Merit Awards Board having considered a recommendation that:
SERIAL OR ID NO.
057303
OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
DO/CI
NAME (Last-First-Middle);
GOODPASTURE, Ann L.
BIRTHYEAR
1918
BE AWARDEO
SCHEDULE GRADE.
D
GS 13
F Staff
SERVICE DESIGNATION
STATION

Career Intelligence Medal
FOR HEROIC ACTION ON
FOR MERITORIOUS SERVICE OR ACHIEVEMENT DURING THE PERIOD September 1947 - June 1973
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
DOES NOT RECOMMEND APPROVAL
RECOMMENDS AWARD OF
UNCLASSIFIED CITATION

Miss Ann L. Goodpasture is hereby awarded the Career
Intelligence Medal in recognition of her exceptional
achievement for more than 25 years. A charter member
of the Central Intelligence Agency, Miss Goodpasture has
excelled as an operations officer both overseas and in
headquarters. Her performance throughout her career has
been outstanding and marked by a high degree of competence
and unusual dedication to duty. Miss Goodpasture has
contributed substantially to the mission of the Agency,
reflecting credit on her and the Federal service.

(Recommendation approved by ADD/O on 2 August 1973)
REMARKS

/8' W. E. Co'by
SIGNATURE

TYPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD
/s/ John F. Blake
John F. Blake
APPROVED

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
DATE
/s/ R. L. Austin, Ji
SIGNATURE

TYPED NAME OF RECOR
R. I..Austin, Jr.
4 SEF 1973
14-00000

SECTION A
SECRET
(When Filled. In)

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD
(Submit in triplicate 300 HR 20-37)
PERSONAL DATA
1. EMP SER.NO. 2. NAME OF PERSON RECOMMENDED (Lost. Firet, Middle)
Goodpasture, Ann Lorene
057303
5. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
DDO/CI Staff
3. POSITION TITLE
8. GRADE
9. SD
1. GRADE
8. GRADE
GS-13
4.
5. GRADE
4. STATION
OPF

X
MEADQUARTERS
PIELD (Specify location)
7.OFFICE EXT. (1 ha)..
8. NOME PHONE
. NOME ADDRESS, (No. St:.City.State.ZIP code)
4200 Cathedral Ave., Wash., D.C.
244-1657
11. CITIZENSHIP AND MORE ACQUIRED
U.S. Birth
12. RECOMMENDED AWARD
YES
13 IF RETIRING. DATE OF RETIREMENT 14. POSTHUMOUS
X
Career Intelligence Medal.:
23 October, 1973
16. RELATIONSHIP 17. HOME ADDRESS (No.. St., City.State.ZIP Code)
18. NAME OF NEXT OF KIN
C. H. Goodpasture
SECTION B
RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD FOR HEROIC ACTION OR ACCEPTANCE OF NAZARD
19. WERE YOU AN EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT
20. FULL NAME
10 HOMEPHONE
Livingston, Tenn.
X
VES
PERSONNEL IN IMMEDIATE VICINITY OR WHO ASSISTED IN ACT OR SHARED IN SAME HAZARD:
21. ONGN. TITLE 22. GRÁDE 23. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN ACT:
24. FULL NAME
25. AWARD RECOMMENDED
CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH ACT WAS PERFORMED:
24. LOCATION
27. INCLUSIVE DATES
26. TIME OF DAY
29. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

30: DATES FOR WHICH AWARD RECOMMENDED
31.
ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED
ON
32. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT
YES
NO
SECTION C
RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD FOR ACHIEVEMENT, SERVICE, OR PERFORMANCE
33. DO YOU HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE
34. OFFICIAL ASSIGNMENT OF PERSON RECOMMENDED AT TIME OF SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

Headquarters
35. COMPONENT OR STATION (Designation and location)
DDO/WH
36. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ASSIGNED POSITION
Operations officer completing 30 years of service in the Agency and
its predecessor organizations.
37. INCLUSIVE GATES FOR WHICH RECOMMENDED 30.
1947-1973
PERSONNEL WHO ASSISTED OR CONTRIBUTED SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE
40. FULL NAME
XASSIGNMENT COMPLETED
YES
XNO
39. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT
VIS
42. GRACE 43. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

41. ORGN. TITLE
GS-18
Mr. Winfield Scott
Mexico City
LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE PERFORMANCE
44. FULL NAME
45. TYPE OF AWARD
Mr. Winfield Scott
FORM 600 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET
(4)

SECTION D

SECRET
(When Filled in)
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION
Award for Hereic Action or Acceptance of Hosard: War Was act voluntary? Describe why art was outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected.
Explain why, and bow. If an aerial or marime operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances.
Indicate results of the act. Enclose unclassifed citation.
Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period, for which recommended. Give complete description of admin
istrahve, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C, include dates of assignment and relied, What did the Individual
de that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to other of like grude and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If
appropriate, include, production records and assistance rendered by other persons or wasin What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate re
sults of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which
supports this recommendation Enclose unclassified citation.

Miss Goodpasture has been on sick leave since July 1972 awaiting.
medical retirement in October 1973. She is a charter member of the Agency.
having entered on duty from OSS and its successor organizations. Her
career is highly distinguished by virtue of consistently strong to out-
standing performance, all of which is fully documented.

In addition to several staff and desk assignments, Miss Goodpasturė
served in support of the successful coup against the communist government
in Guatemala in 1954 and completed tours of duty in Bombay, Monterrey and
Mexico City. Undoubtedly, the high point of her career occurred during
her service in Mexico City from 1957 through 1970, where she served as a
"trouble-shooting" case officer for the incomparable Winfield Scott
(deceased), who was then the Chief of Station: Mr. Scott, a stern task-.
master, described Miss Goodpasture over these years as "intelligent, hard-
working, conscientious, versatile, valuable and unquestionably one of the
most competent CI/CE officers he ever had the privilege of working with."
Miss Goodpasture's fitness reports were totally consistent with this
appraisal, and were characterized by outstanding ratings. In her final
assignment prior to acute medical problems, she worked for the CI Staff
(October 1970-October 1971), earning the following remarks from her
supervisor: "...I venture to rate her overall performance, thirty years
of it, as Outstanding. Ann is one of the tough warp-threads on which
this organization is woven, and when she retires the fabric of this organi-
zation will be weakened." The reviewing official agreed with the above
and recorded his hope that Miss Goodpasture get the official Agency recogni
tion she so richly deserves for the many years she has made substantive
CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET
46. ENCLOSURES (List individually) IF ORIGINATOR IS NOT AN EYEWITNESS OR DOES NOT HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE ACT
OR PERFORMANCE. ATTACH AFFIDAVITS OF EYEWITNESS OR INDIVIDUALS HAVING PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE FACTS.
1. PROPOSED CITATION
:
2.
3.
47. RECOMMENDATION INITIATED BY
48. TITLE AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYLE MAKING RECOM- 49. DATE
MENDATION
David A. Phillips Chief, WH Division 21 JUN 1973
SECTION E
RECOMMENDATION FORWARDED THROUGH OFFICIALS CONCERNED FOR THEIR INFORMATION
50.
HEAD OF
CAREER SERVICE
D
TITLE AND SIGNATURE
(Career service of nominee)
DATE
See Item #52
51.
TITLE AND SIGNATURE
DATE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CAREER SERVICE
See Item #52
52.
TITLE AND SIGNATURE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF OPERATING COMPONENT
DATE
SECRET

25/72 REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

NAME (Last Firi Middle!
GOODPASTURE, Ann L.
D
Extended Sick Leave
Disability Retirement
10- 2322
TO
ORGANIZATIONAL DESAGNATIONS
DDPCI Staff
Development Complement
POSITION TITLE
OPS. OFFICER
L
M. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE IGS LE etc.)
GS
0136.01
*other

DATE 10-23-73

SIGNATURE 8 REQUESTING OFFICIAN
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
ACTION |20|E¥PLOY 21. OFFICE COG NG
CD
28 ATE EXPRES
"10 2373 C 5
7-53
SECRE
0.00

SIGNATURE CAREER ERVICE APPROYING OFFICE
TE SED

78
55 3
-RGN-
-FICA-
28
LATER
FECLIHEALTH |30URANDE
.
124.67 APFRONED

10 CT 1972

15 OCT 1972
429
==End of OCR for page 21==