104-10122-10405 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
SIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
TING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

SECRET
GROUP
1
2
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
(When Filled In)
DOWNGRADING AND
2
7
DECLASSIFICATION
3
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4
9
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX:
YES
NO
BY:
AT:
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
Z
X-REF TO FILE NO.
DISSEM BY
ACTION
PER
FILE RID
RET. TO
BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
INFO:
RID COPY
FILE. VR.
WH-8 RI/AN, WH/COE-8, DAR AddP, COGC-2
#081 CI, CE/Ops, SOD-6, CS/Do, Secur-4, cs/sGo, CI/PS

SECRET 241549Z JUL 68 CITE JMCOBRA Ø382
16-10
16-8
DIRECTOR, (SANTO DOMINGO) INFO (PORT AU PRINCE)
21-10
REFS: A. (SANTO DOMINGO)5907 IN 54327x2
21-10
B. SANTO DOMINGO 5912 IN 55244x2
C. DIRECTOR 18614 N

1. (SECEN) (WHO ALSO FORMERLY (EM) SHAM-1) IS PARTNER OF

PARA 7 REF A COMPANY WHICH WE UNDERSTAND IS LEGITIMATE

ENTERPRISE TO EXPLOIT HIS EXTENSIVE CONTACTS IN DOMINICAN

MILITARY FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES。 (SECEN) HAD SOME CONTACT

WITH FATHER GEORGES AT LEAST IN PERIOD BEFORE HIS TERMINATION

BY JMWAVE IN AUGUST 66。 NO (SECEN) CONTACT WITH FATHER

BAJEUX KNOWN BUT JMCOBRA NOT KNOWLEDGEABLE HIS RECENT

ACTIVITIES。

2. JMCOBRA HAS/NO INFO (SECEN) CURRENTLY IN CONTACT

WITH MASFERRER OR THAT MASFERRER PROPOSED TRIP NEW YORK

CONNECTED WITH (SECEN) TRIP SANTO DOMINGO.

CONE OF FORMER JMWAVE CASE OFFICERS OF (SECEN) COMMENTS IT

HIGHLY UNLIKELY (SECEN) CURRENTLY DEALING WITH MASFERRER。

ALSO COMMENTS (SECEN) IMPRESSED HIM AND OTHERS AS

HIGHLY COMPETENT TOUGH PROFESSIONAL SOLDIER AND IF INVOLVED

SECRET

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
GLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
GROUP 1
1
6
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
2
7
DECLASSIFICATION
3
8
4
9
コ
YES
NO
5
10
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX:
BY:
DISSEM BY
ACTION
AT:
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO._
Z
X-REF TO FILE NO.
PER
FILE RID
RET. TO
INFO:
RID COPY
FILE. VR.
BRANCH
DESTROY
SIG.

PAGE 2 JMCOBRA Ø382 SECRET

IN OR LEADING TROOPS IN INVASION ATTEMPT HAITI COULD BE

EXPECTED MAKE MUCH STRONGER SHOWING THAN PREVIOUS COMIC-OPERA
ATTEMPTS。

3。 SY MANDEL FROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH SEYMOUR MANDEL

FORMER OWNER CRAZY AMERICAN BAR HAVANA WHO NOW SHIP CAPTAIN

REPUTED BE ENGAGED SMUGGLING AND OTHER ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES

IN CARIBBEAN。 NO LOCAL WOBONE TRACES MAC DONALD AND CARTUS.

SECRET

BT

SECRET
