14-00000

104-10176-10069 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MASFERRER Y ROJAS, ROLANDO 
201-42669 
(VOL. VIII

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN. 66 THRU 31 DEC. 66

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

MASFERRER Y ROJAS, Rolando
DATE DATE 
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
10:26 
4 AUG -78 PAT ORR

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000

101-42669
SECRET

OGC 66-2615

16 December 1966

The Honorable J. Walter Yeagley
Assistant Attorney General
Internal Security Division
Deparment of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Walt:

After you informed me on 29 November 1966 of the
Possible indictment by the U. S. Attorney in Florida of Rolando
Masferrer and others concerned in the plan to launch an expedition
from Florida against President Duvalier of Haiti, I asked for a
report on our knowledge of, or involvement in, this activity.

As you know, we have installations in the Miami area
which utilize a variety of sensitive covers. The Chief of Station
coordinates his activities closely with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and
the Bureaus of Customs of the Department of the Treasury and
disseminates to those offices in the area pertinent intelligence
Information

Our Station was well informed on the plans of Masferrer -
and his cohorts and disseminated this information in the normal
manner. Part of this reporting included information that Masferrer
and some of his associates repeatedly asserted that their plotting
had been approved by the U. S. Government. On some occasions
they stated this approval came from this Agency, and other
times they intimated that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had
approved their actions. These claims were apparently used to
persuade various persons, primarily Cuban exiles, some of whom
formerly had contact with the Agency, to join the plot. It appears
logical to assume that Masterrer will continue to claim that he
had received what he interpreted to be U. S. Government approval
of the scheme to overthrow President Duvalier, and if he has

SECRET 

F/b 201-42669

14-00000

SECRET

nothing more positive he can take the approach that he considered
the U. S. Government tacitly approved his plot since it obviously
knew about it and did not take any action against him.

For the record, it can be flatly stated that neither by
statement nor by implication has the Central Intelligence Agency
indicated to anyone that it approved or was supporting the plot.
On the contrary, those who queried people they knew were con-
nected with our Agency concerning possible participation in the
plot were told that it had no U. S. Government backing whatsoever.
Some of the plotters attempted to contact this Agency through
various intermediaries, and the intermediaries were told that the
Agency wished to have nothing to do with the undertaking and that
any information concerning violations of U. S. laws should be
passed to law enforcement agencies, particularly the Bureau of
Customs and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Technically,
therefore, the Agency has stayed clear of the plotters, and we
would be in a position to state that we had no connections with the
plot and had given it so encouragement or backing of any sort.

As a practical matter, however, if prosecution were
pursued, Masferrer, and perhaps other defendants, would probably
claim that they had CIA backing and some might even believe it to
be true. This might well lead one or more defendants to seek
a subpoena duces tecum for an Agency witness and the Agency
documentation on the subject. As noted above, the witness can
testify to the fact that the Agency had in no way participated or
encouraged the activity. If it proved impossible to quash the
requirement for production of documents, however, we would be
faced with a situation where we would almost certainly have to
claim the documents were privileged on the grounds of security.
Aside from the sensitivity of the reports and their possible
compromise of sources, we would have the problem of identification
of our personnel under cover and of protecting the sensitive cover
arrangements.

The same is true to a lesser extent of action against
Masferrer in connection with violations of his parole. In view
of the flagrant and numerous violations which were actually
known to and reported by Government agencies without any
punitive action resulting, it would appear that he could make a
plausible claim that the Government had at least winked at, if

2

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

not condoned, his activities. It would seem preferable to have
him nominally put under a more stringent parole, perhaps with
an accompanying requirement of bond. In the event he violated
this new status, prompt action could be taken on those circumstances
alone.

Sincerely,

/s/

Lawrence R. Houston
General Counsel

cc: The Honorable David C. Acheson
Special Assistant to the Secretary
(Tax Enforcement)
Department of the Treasury
Washington, D. C. 20220

ExDir-Comp
DDP
GC
Office of Security

133

SECRET

201-42669

14-00000

FBI doc
31 Dec 66 (Miami)
Re - Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas
Bureau #2-156

FBI doc
16 Dee 66 (NY)
Re - Rolando Arcadio Masferrer
Rojas

FBI doc
7 Dee 66 (NY)
Re - Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas

14-00000

ORIG : A. WISNIONS/
UNIT : WH/COG/NO/FI
EXT: 3458
DATE: 7-14-66
DISSEN BY : PER

FROM DIRECTOR
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
INDEX
NO INDEX
SECRET
1
2
3
FILE IN CS FILE
201-42669
4
ROUTING
5
6
7
8
DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

CONFS : 
c/WH/LOG-5 DUFO: VR, FILE RID COPY Doo dole, OGC-2. Auito/cl

CLASSIFICATION) (DATE AND TIME FILED) (REFERENCE NUMBER)
SECRET
1415 Z
CITE DIRECTOR 57687

IMWAVE

DRYBAT TYPIC

REF JAMAVE 4359 (IN 49628)

DISTRIBUTION:
1. FOLLOWING RECEIVED FROM GENERAL COUNSEL IN RESPONSE REF.

2. REF REPORT IS EXCELLENT AND VERY USEFUL IN CONNECTION OGC
DISCUSSIONS WITH DEPT OF JUSTICE.

3. IZECHNICALLY, ON FACTS STATED, THERE DOES NOT APPEAR BE ANY
REASON WHY WOFACT SHOULD OPPOSE INDICTMENT AND TRIAL OF MASFERRER.
THIS BASED ON GROUND THAT WE COULD REFUTE ANY CLAIMS MASFERRER AND
HIS COHORTS MADE OF WOFACT SUPPORT. UNFORTUNATELY, THIS DOES NOT
RECOGNIZE TYPE OF SITUATION WOFACT LIKELY GET INTO IF INDICIMENT IS
BROUGHT, WOFACT LEARNED THROUGH EXPERIENCE THAT DEFENSE COUNSEL
ONLY TOO EAGER CLAIM WOFACT PARTICIPATION AND APPROVAL AS PART OF
DEFENSE, AND IT NOT DIFFICULT FOR HIM TO LAY ENOUGH BASIS FOR COURT
TO ISSUE A SUPOZNA DUCZS TZCUM REQUIRING PRESENCE OF A WOFACT
(CONTINUED)

COORDINATING OFFICER'S
RELEASE OFFICER
SECRET GROUP I

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED. 201-42669
COPY NO

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxca
TOTAL COPIESI
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:
DISSEM BY: PER.
FILE RID
INDEX
SECRET
1
ROUTING

7
NO INDEX
2
3
4
8
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH
SECRET INFO : VR FILE RID COPY

(PICA)
PAGE TWO CITE DIRECTOR 57687

WITNESS TOGETHER WITH ALL WOFACT DOCUMESTATION ON TEZ SUBJECT. IN THE
BUFFALO B-26 CASE THIS WAS NOT TOO BAD AS ONLY DOCUMENTATION WAS FOUR
REPORTS IN WHICH THE INFO WAS NOT SENSITIVE, AND JUDGE AGREED TO
EXCISE SOURCE AND OTHER SENSITIVE INFO EZZORE PAPZAS WERE INTRODUCED
INTO ZVIDENCE.

4. IN MASFERRER CASE A SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM WOULD REQUIRE
PRODUCTION OF ALL DOCUMENTS WE HAVE WHICH TOUCH ON YASZZRRER-HAITIAN
PLAN AND ACTIVITY. OGC REASONABLY SURE WOULD NOT 33 ABLE HONOR SUCH
SUBPOENA, AND DEPT OF JUSTICE AGREES WITH OCC. IT MUST BE REMEZERED
THAT PROCESS OF SUBPOENA AND PRODUCTION OF RECORDS HOULD PROBABLY COME

TO ISSUE BEFORE WOFACT WOULD HAVE OPPORTUNITY TO INTRODUCE EVIDENCE
TO REFUTE THE CLAIM OF OUR PARTICIPATION. IF WOFACT REFUSED TO EONOR
SUBPOZKA, THE GOVT WOULD HAVE TO DROP ITS CRIMINAL CASE SO CHANCES
SUCCESS ARE MINIYAL, BUT THE PROCESS WOULD DEVELOP EXTENSIVE PUBLICITY
(CONTINUED)

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FREKIBITED. COPY NO
1

14-00000

CRIG
UNIT
EXT
DATE S
DISSEN BY
REAC
FILE RIB
INDEX
SECRET
1
5

2
6
NAV FILE IN CS FILE RO
3
4
7
TOAS DIRECTOR B REZERM TO BRANCH
DINFO: YR, FILE RID COPY
ICLARIFICATION) DATE TIME TELERI (REFERENCE NUMBER)
SECRET
CITE DIRECTOR 57687

WHICH EXPERIENCE SHOWS WOULD BEE MOSTLY UNFAVORABLE AND WHOLE PROCEEDING
MICHT WELL EXPOSE JYJAVE COVER AND OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES.

5. BASEDON OGC DISCUSSION OF ABOVE ASPECTS, DEPT OF JUSTICE FEELS
INDICTMENT SHOULD NOT BE SOUGHT. ONE PROBLEM, EOWEVER, IS THAT CUSTOMS
THINKS THEY HAVE HOT CASE AND WANT TO PURSUE IT. ACCORDINGLY, WITH
AGZZEMENT OF DEPT OF JUSTICE, OGC HAS TALKED TO DAVID C. ACHESON,
DEET OF TREASURY AND POINTED OUT PROBLEM. ACHESON IS LOOKING INTO IT
AND OGC WILL PROBABLY CONTACT HIM IN NEXT FEW DAYS.

6. OGC STATES DOES NOT WISH HAVE JMWAVE BLAMED FOR INTERFERING
WITH CUSTOMS CASE AND THAT JYWAVE CAN PUT THE FULL BURDEN ON OGC
AND DEPT OF JUSTICE. OCC SUGGESTS, HOWEVER, THAT UNLESS JMWAVE IS
APPROACHED BY CUSTOMS JMWAVE SZOULD MAKE NO MOVE UNTIL OGC GETS THINGS
FIRALY ESTABLISHED AT HOS.

allows THOMAS J. FLORES
JAMES D. ESTERLINE
AC/WHD OCC L. R. Houston (telecón) C/MA/COG

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION GROUP 1
Ungraded banaras
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED. COPY NO

14-00000

INFO
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM
CONFIDENTIAL REPORT NO 00-B-321/19112-66
COUNTRY Haiti
DATE DISTR 30 Nov 66
SUBJECT Proposed Invasion Cancelled
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES This report vas previously disseminated as TD-005-321/
19112-66

DATE OF
INFO. 23 Nov 66 and earlier

PLACE & THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
DATE ACO - 23 Nov 66

SOURCE US national, soldier of fortune type with wide experience in Latin America. He is closely associated with Rolando Masferrer.

(This report vas developed-by-a Navy representative assigned to the office of preparation.)

1. During the night of 22 Nov 66 a decision vas reached to call off the proposed invasion of Haiti by the group sponsored by Rolando Fesferrer. The invasion is off indefinitely.

2. Father Jean Leptiste Georges and Colonel Rene Leon have been arguing with
Vasferrer which has caused confusion and disorganization in the movement.
Many Cabans scheduled to participate have pulled out end military chief
Napoleon Viliaboise (sic), a Cuban national and alleged military expert,
has resigned because of dissension in the group.

3. It is believed that US Government agencies have isfiltrated the novecent
and the leaders fear that all weapons and equipment would be confiscated if
plans for the Invasion proceeded.
- end -

CONFIDENTIAL 30 Nov
S-528
201-42667

14-00000

Broe
17

Confisential

Thursday - November 17, 1966

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION between

Andrew St. George -- CBS photographer.
William G. Bowdler,

SUBJECT: Invasion of Haiti

Andrew St. George called me from Miami.

He said that he and the CBS film erew, headed by a Mr. McMullin
(phonetic), were back ia Miami to cover the departure this weekend
of the expedition which Rolando Masferrer was organising to invade
Haiti. St. George claimed that Masferrer had recruited 300 men and
arranged for the use of one B-89, two C-468 and a large boat. He
said that all the preparations were so much in the open that it was
evident that Masferrer and his Haitian colleagues had received the
"green light". Recent events in Haiti, plus Masferrer's activities,
were attracting a lot of newamen to Miami.

I teld St. George that he was mistaken about the "green light". We
will not telerate vielation of our neutrality laws. Our enforcement
agencies, whose dety it is to enforce these lave, will cot permit
what he described taking pizce. I wanted him and those with whom
he was dealing to be clear on this point. He said he would inform
Mr. MeMallin.

WA & Restow
Bill Meyers
Linc Gerden/State.
Bill Bree/CIA.
Williana G. Bowdler

η πουσσ
201-042667

14-00000

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, USC. Sect. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM
SECRET NO DISSEM ABROAD
COUNTRY Haiti/Dominican Republic/ Bahamas
REPORT NO. 00-B-321/17879-66
SUBJECT Planned Invasion of Haiti between 5-13 Nov 66
DATE DISTR 7 Nov 66
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO. 26 Oct 66
PLACE &
DATE ACO-1 Nov 66

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION CIEL C-DC6-52851
This report was previously disseminated as TD-OOB-321/17879-66

SOURCE: US national with wide travel experience in Latin America. Es speaks some
Spanish, and has many social and business contacts in the Lominican Republic.
(This report vas developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office of
preparation.)

1. On 28 Oct 66 I spoke with Rolando Masferrer Rojas, a Ciben exile, and he told
me that he has organized a military force of approximately 250 men to invade
Faiti. The invasion force consists of Caban and Eaitian exiles residing in
the U3, the Bahamas, and the Dominican Republic. The invasion will probably
bo Lunched from the Dominican Republic sometime between 5 and 13 November
and the target is Port-su-Prince. The invasion force vill strike in the
early hours of the morning selected. It is vell arned, and will have air
cover; the presidential palace vill be bombed.

2. Masferrer stated that Eigene L. Maximilien, Haitian Consil in Miami, Florid,
is aware of the invasion, but he has no knowledge of the invasion date.
Maxinilion is presently in Haiti informing President Dralier that the invasion
ean bo prevented by paying off $200,000 to Kasferrer.allion will return
to the ts on 3 November and he has agreed with Vasferrer that if Duvalier
agrees to the pay-off, Maximilien vill receive $50,000 and Masferrer $150,000。

3 Masferrer told me that the invasion vill take place in any event and the
$150,000, if received, would be used to further support the invasion.

4. Masferrer stated that he met within the past 10 days with several dissident
Haitian army officers and be had received their export. De Haitian army
officers told Vasferrer that they would revolt as soon as informed that the
Invasion had commenced. They do not know that the target vill be Port-au-
Princes they believe that it will be in the cap Esities area.

5. Masferrer stated that he was confident that the invasion will succeed, and if
successfuli, Father Joan Baptiste Ceorzes vould be appointes provisional
president. Kasferrer stated that Colonel Rene Leon, Estiasile, vill Moulle
garticipate in the invasion. 
201-420698

14-00000

FBI cloc
28 Oct 66 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadis Masferrer
lojas

14-00000

SECRET

(Then Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

1. RI FILE NO.
2. DISPATCH OP SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM. 4. DATE
DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION
5. DATE PROCESSED.
10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
18. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
18. TRANSFERRED TO OF FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO 201-042669
SEX A CUB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
100-609-016
DBB-03505
20 OCT 66
24
RE ENVOLVEMENT IN HAITIAN EXILE ACTIVITIES.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET 86701130980
FILE IN 201-0112669

20 Oct LC
201-42169

14-00000

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
28, USC. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to as unauthorized person is prohibited to
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Haiti REPORT NO. CS-311/10608-67
SUBJECT Allegal Plan by Fractionat Presit Dent DATE DISTP, 13 October 1967
Duvalier to Have Anti-Duvalier
Revolutionaries in Miami, Florida, NO. PAGES 1
Assassinated.
REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO 21 September 1967
PLACE &
DATE ACQ United States, Miami FIELD REPORT NO. VFG-9090

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENTS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE Former Latin American diplomat who maintains relations with officials o
Latin American countries. Source is a trained reporter and his informa-
tion has been reliable in the past. He obtained this information from
Aurea Esther Poggio.

1. On 21 September 1967 in Miami, Florida, Aurea Esther Poggio,
Cuban emigre who is a secretary to Rolando Masferrer Rojas.
said that plans had been made to assassinate persona linked
with revolutionary movements in Miami opposing President
Francois Duvalier of Haiti. Poggio said that the first such
attempt was against Julio Aton Constanzo Palau on 17 September
1967.

2. Poggio said that Masferrer's group was investigating the
matter in an effort to find out who was carrying out the
assascination plans for Duvelier.

1. Field Comment: Constanzo, Cuban emigre, was among those indicted
vith Masferrer, former Cuban senator, and Father Jean Baptiste Georges,
Haitian emigre, by a federal grand jury in Miant in February 1967
charges of conspiring to launch an invasion of Haiti from the Florida
Keys. No coverage of an attempt to kill Constanzo has been noted in
the local press.

2. Headquarters Comment: According to IDCS-314/08723-67, about mid-
1907 Duvalier instructed Andre Elie, Faitian Consul in Bew York, to
keep close surveillance on Haitian exiles and to report all plans
for invasions of Haiti.

C-O-N-F-I-D-Z-N-T-I-A-L
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR NSA ATD SECRET SERVICE (FID)

(Also sent Port-au-Prince)
VFORMAFLO

1 WH/PACY (080) - 1
WH/COG/2R 3
 GC 2

076-9090
(YOAMBIEN-6)
-2011

14-00000

SECRET

(The Filled ly

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.
SPATCH OF SOURCE POC. PABOL NO. 4. DATE

DATE OF INFO EVALUATION

5. BATE PROCESSES 11. CATE
DOCLIMENT DISPOSITION

1.8. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE TO
FILE 00.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
BASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX N 008 ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
100-C09-016
UFG-08589
12 OCT 66
ACTIVITY OF ROLANDE MASFEPRER ROJAS
AND FATHER JEAN BAPTISTE GEORGES IN
PREPARING FOR ACTION AGAINST HAITI

MOCHTP R 6610210178,

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET
:
FILE IN 201-47669
ineet (6
201-42469

14-00000

SECRET
(Then Filled by

DOCURIENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
:
SOJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCLAMENT IDENTIFICATION
R1 FILE NO.
DISPATCH SOURCE DOC. SV
7. SOURCE CATTOUTES. BATE OF . . EVALUATION
ANALVET
6.BATE PROCESSED12. BATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITI0%
15. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO
OF FILE NO.
:
PERTINENT INFORMATION
MASSFERKER ROJAS, POLANDO
201-042669
SEX A COS 7
CIT ?
201-002705
VFG-08588
12 OCT 66
OCC ?
REPORTEDLY AACREW ST. GEORGE, A FREE
LANCE PHOTOGRAPHER, HAD RECEIVED
PERMISSION FRON MASFERRER TO FAKE A FILN
FOR THE COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM
CCACERNING THE ACTIVITIES OF THE MAS
FERRER GROUP WITH RESPECT TO AN IRVASEGA
OF HALTE TO BE MOUNTED FROM THE DR
#6810190209
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET
FILE IN 201-47619
120746

14-00000

SECRET

(Then Pilled in)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.
SPATE 8 SOURCE Dee. S 4. DATE
7. SOURCE ERVATONYMS. GATE OF . . EVALUATION
8. BATE PROCESSED 1.6. DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. ASFERRED TO
VILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION
MASFERRER. ROLAACC
201-042665
SEX A COR 7
CIT 7
GCC 2
201-167733
EFA -62250
SA EARLY MAR 66 CCAZALEZ, ELSIUIA 1201
HE BOULD HELP LIEFKATE CLEA PUT FINDING MEN
:FALSE, SHE LEFT MASFERRER AAL NOVIH ABCLT
BYC LEVING WITH FRIENDS. PASIIKKIK STATED IN
APR 66 HE DID ALT TRUST CLA/ALLY ARE FELT
SHE WOULD RETURA TO CUBA

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
-
SECRET 6610260297
FILE IN 201-042669
30464

14-00000

INDE 201-42169
☑
TO 2 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
2
SREF 2010
SECRETS
ALL
PERSONTIFIED
4
1171
PALE ORID COM CA A
SLOTIER UNIT
SHENDORS
E SECRETE 1745763
23 Sep 1623147

1. AVRE JONAVE I
ROZEZ FIUK IS YOR YOR OFFICE OF

(1.) 4
737.1K IS CAS

2. FYI COORDINATOR CEAS
BOATS B377

L1964
233 1966
20742469

14-00000

* J.B.TOMAS sld

: 14/7/haiti
125
EXT
TOAT COOLES I
SECRET
POUTINE
REPTIO SE
ATE: 22 Sept. 1956 FILE CS TILE 0
BSSM BY 0081 ROESTROY REFLORA BRANCH
1. L.
SECLET
67562

PORT ALL PENCE, 211293, 542TO COMING
SANSTOGO DUS ABALIENDOS
-PRICE

BUP: 52821 5155 (18 00951
J. FOR
722S S1. 5003E 151.1789 S3 532524100
2. $89.5. $35505 05 $3
3. * IS CI
4.430192710 30 $595 S1.
00000005
GERE
SERA
MASFEAFEX, 19
CONINUED
REPROSYCTION S 235 S32
2-00524266471

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES
ORC
EXT
DATE
DISSEN SY
PER FILE RID
OFILE 15555
SECRET

FROM: DIRECTOR DESTROY REZERM 70 BRANCH
S.D COPY FILE

6355
1651
16 5037 2521503.
CITE DIRECTOR 37582

1. 180 1925
2 5107 0.5.5. 53230 510
4. 451 503 05 .
50 923
COMPIXUED
SECRETER

REPROSYCTION BY S3213 233 121233 210282.

14-00000

MESSACE FORW
TOTAL COPIES
OFILE RIB
ON INSE
SECRET
UNIT
CATE
ISSEM BY
PER FLE ON 7215 5140
2727
1. 10 PUS SORS
CIE ORRECRE
552125 702431925

61 SECURE C05 S3 ESF 730 5
50337 S2-30 $2.
12 SECURE 201-042615

14-00000

SECRET

21 September 1966

MEMORANDUUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Liaison Meeting with FBI New York Agent Frank O'Brien

1. At 1500 hours on 13 September, Ken Millian and I
net with FBI Cuban specialist Frank O'Brien at a cafe/coffee
shop at 72ad St. and 3rd Ave., two blocks away from the Bu-
reau's New York headquarters. I had arranged the meeting by
telephone from Washington and advised C'Brien that I wanted
to review and coordinate a number of items with him. I also
informed him that I would be accompanied by Millian, a col-
league interested in the Cuban UN Mission.

2. The meeting opened at an easy pace with an uninhib-
ited review of happenings of mutual interest. O'Brien noted
that in his view the Cubans at the Mission had been relative
ly inactive and had not recently been involved in subversive
activities of any magnitude. He reviewed FBI coverage of as
yet not fully explained purchasing activity by Mission per-
sonnel which included procurement from various New York area
military surplus cutlets of ponchos, leggings, and other
similar equipment. He implied that in the process of cover-
ing the activities, the Bureau had acquired a substantial
amount of surplus equipment itself but he didn't provide de-
tails and we didn't pursue the matter.

3. He noted that blanket Bureau coverage of the activ-
ities of Rolando Masferrer was continuing and that he occa-
sionally talked with Masferrer by telephone or in person.
He indicated that the Bureau was intimately aware of efforts
on the part of Masferrer and other Cubans both in New York
and Florida to procure arms in the U.S. and position them ir
the Dominican Republic. He reported that an attempt to nove
a shipment of such arms from the Florida Keys to the D.R..
currently was underway and that the U.S. Customs Service was
alerted to move in at the appropriate time to confiscate the
material. (Although acknowledging Masferrer's gangster back-
ground, O'Brien compigmented him on his intelligence and ef-
ficiency and indicated that Masferrer was one of the ablest
Cuban refugees he had net.)

4. O'Brien also surfaced his current contact with for-
ner Rebel Army Captain Raiwindo F. Antonio de la Torre v

1
SECRET
Escleted the sec
Ches. 7

Selb
201-042669

14-00000

SECRET

Ugarte, 81-11 Pettit Ave., Elmhurst, Long Island, tel. NR 2-5487.
De la Torre apparently is involved with Cuban refugees in
the U.S. who are attempting to re-establish the 26th of July
Movement here in the United States minus the Communist im-
plications contributed by Fidel. O'Brien apparently is im-
pressed with De la Torre's sincerity and ability and belicves
that De la Torre should be of interest to us. De la Torre
has until recently stayed away from exile activities and ac-
cording to O'Brien is pushing the revitalized 26th of July
idea by personal contact rather than make any splash. Ac-
cording to O'Brien De la Torre is now operating a successful
painting business and at one time held a good position with
Union Carbide International. In conversations with O'Brien
O 
De la Torre has been critical of CI... When queried O'Brien
indicated that den fortes only real gripes the
Pigs. (C/O note: We should look into De la Torre to see if
he could be used in any revitalized effort abroad to estab-
lish lines of access to nen-Communist 26th of Julyers still
in Cuba Carlos Franqui etc.) We indicated that we would
evaluate information available to us and discuss De la Torre
with him again in the future.

5. Note: O'Brien has been working the Cuban target in
New York for over ten years and is impressively conversant
with the subject. It is, therefore, sometimes difficult to
stay with him when he covers various complicated subjects
with abbreviated statements, e. g., during subject meeting,
he alluded to one Miguel Morales, the former husband of Nellie
Barletta, daughter of Batista's ambassador to Argentina
Anleto Barletta. He apparently feels there may be mileage
in Morales. We will, therefore, review Morales, Barletta,
et al, and resurface the subject with him when time permits.

6. The two principal action items on my agenda were
the coordination of my planned luncheon meeting with photo-
journalist Lee J. Lockwood (201-78771), and discussion of
NEKNIFE, who allegedly was interviewed by the Bureau in New
York several years ago. O'Brien advised me that he had re-
viewed their Lockwood file and talked with the Bureau agent
responsible for the Lockwood "case". He stated that he had
not uncovered any derogatory information on Lockwood and saw
no reason to prevent my meeting with him. I told him I would
advise him of my meeting arrangements with Lockwood when they
were firm and that I would brief him after the meeting was
over. (It is of interest to note that during my briefing
of O'Brien on the morning of the 16th, the day following my
luncheon with Lockwood, O'Brien noted that some of his supe-
riors in Washington thought Lockwood was an opposition (sic)
"spy". When I asked if there was anything to support this

2
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
Paint has
with Sal?
theory, O'Brien said absolutely not, it was pure speculation.)

7. O'Brien checked the Bureau's New York indices on
NEKNIFE Lut without success. If he was in fact interviewed
by the FBI in New York there apparently was no record of
it. I told him that NEKNIFE was expected in New York City
in late September to visit his daughter and