14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF EMPLOYEES

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:   ARTIME-Buesa, Manuel
                                201-0267437
                                Volume XVI

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: Third Agency Documents

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| - - - - - - - - - - - - - | - - - - - - - - - - - - - | - - - - - - - - - - - - - | - - - - - - - - - - - - - |
| 07 AUG 1978 | 7 Aug 1978 | Leslie WIZELMAN | Leshe WIZELMAN |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 17 SEPTEMBER 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ASSOCIATION OF VETERANS OF THE
BAY OF PIGS, BRIGADE 2506

MANUEL ARTIME

CABLE PEC SSEME

P
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

10-12-3

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY SAVER FLOTTER	STAFF
ACTION LUT 1  WH8	4
FILE	VR	1P/AN 24/03 1S/INT
ACTION.	2	PS/EGY, Osloc	5
T 155266  E1A224	PAGE 81	IN 268135
TOR:3121182 MAY 74	LIMA 28090

SECRET 3128482 MAY 74 STAFFI
CITE LIMA 28290		ALAN-AINORI
TO: DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI.
REAM

Juan Valady
X1222 OS/BARRY
answering Artime fil

1.	DUSKIRT-2 HAS ASKED IF WE COULD OBTAIN FOR HIM THE CURRENT
ADDRESS OF MANUEL ARTIME. D-2 WAS FRIEND AND COLLABORATOR OF
ARTIME FROM 1959 UNTIL THEY LOST CONTACT WITH EACH OTHER IN 1968.
WHEN D-2 FIRST CAME TO PERU HE CARRIED LETTER SIGNED BY ARTIME
IDENTIFYING HIM AS ARTIME PERSONAL REP IN PERU.

2.	D-2 WANTS TO CONTACT ARTIME TO ASK HIS HELP IN TAINING
NICARAGUAN PASSPORT. HE CLAIMS ARTIME RELATIONSHIP WITH SOMOZA
IS SUCH THAT ARTIME COULD OBTAIN FOR D-2 NICARAGUAN PASSPORT AND
S
PERHAPS SOME TYPE OF HONORARY CONCUL DESIGNATION, D-2 WILL WRITE
LETTER TO ARTIME EXPLAINING HIS SITUATION AND WILL ASK STATION
TO POUCH LETTER TO MIAMI FOR MAILING THERE EITHER DIRECTLY TO
ARTIME OR TO D-2 SISTER FOR HER TO DELIVER PERSONALLY TO ARTIME.

3.	AS ABOVE INDICATES, D-2 REMAINS PREOCCUPIED WITH FACT. HE
DOES NOT POSSESS VALID PASSPORT. HE HAS TRIED NUMEROUS SCHEMES
TO OBTAIN SAME WITHOUT SUCCESS. HE STRONGLY FEELS HE MUST HAVE
DOCUMENTATION TO LEAVE PERU IF NECESSARY. HE WORRIES ABOUT
BECRET

CABLE SECCIASEM
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED HOTTER
ACTIONN	2
ACTION. 10
RF  FILE	VA
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA

T 155286  E14224	PAGE 82	IN 268135
	TUR:3121182 MAY 24	LIMA 28098

POSSIBILITY OF ONE DAY BEING ARRESTED, PERHAPS AS RESULT HIS
BKHERALD ACTIVITY. AND DEPORTED TO CUBA BY LEFTIST PERUVIAN
GOVT. HE ADMITS THAT HIS EXPERIENCES IN CUBA AFTER CASTRO'S
TAKEOVER COLOR HIS PERCEPTION OF THE DANGER IN HIS CURRENT
SITUATION BUT HE IS NOT WILLING TO REMAIN VULNERABLE TO SIMILAR
DEVELOPMENT IN PERU. EVENTS OF THE PAST FEW DAYS WILL OF COURSE
NOT REASSURE HIM RE THE SITUATION HERE.

4.	OTHER THAN ARTIME GAMBIT, ONLY TWO POSSIBILITIES FOR
OBTAINING PASSPORT WHICH REMAIN OPEN TU D-2 ARE PERUVIAN CITIZEN-
SHIP OR GOING TO CUBAN EMBASSY AND ASKING THAT THEY RENEN HIS
EXPIRED CUBAN PASSPORT. HE REJECTS IDEA PERUVIAN CITIZENSHIP,
CLAIMING HE STILL PLANS EVENTUALLY RETURN TO LIVE IN UNITED STATES
BUT ALSO BECAUSE HIS FEARS ABOUT ULTIMATE DESTINATION PERUVIAN
REVOLUTION AND POSSIBILITY MARXIST DICTATORSHIP COMING TO PONER
HERE. HE AND STATION ARE NATURALLY RELUCTANT HAVE HIM APPROACH
CURS. THERE PROBABLY THICK FILE ON HIM IN HAVANA AND HE WOULD
NOT HISH CALL THEIR ATTENTION TO HIS PRESENCE HERE. HOWEVER THIS
OPTION MUST BE EXAMINED AND THEREFORE WOULD BE HELPFUL IF HOS
COULD PROVIDE INFO UN EXPERIENCE OTHER'S SUCH AS D-2, FORMERLY
ACTIVE CASTRO OPPONENTS NOW IN EXILE IN COUNTRIES WHICH MAINTAIN
BCAST
ט

CABLE SECCIASEM

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED HOTTER
ACTIONN
RF  FILE	VA
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

T 1195200  614224	PAGE 83-83	IN 268135
	TOR:3121182 MAY 74	LIMA 26898

DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CUBA, WHO STILL CUBAN CITIZENS AND
MAVE HAD TO CONTACT CUBAN EMBASSIES FOR PASSPORT RENEWAL. HAVE
CUBANS NORMALLY RENEWED THESE PASSPORTS AND IS THERE EVIDENCE CUBANS
MAVE OPERATIONALLY EXPLOITED SITUATION OF THESE EXILEST
8.	FILE: 281-8754738. E2. IMPDET.

SECRET

14-00000

V
.10193 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 	R.S.
70.
то με 20.
RIS RET. TO BRANCO
22	TOTAL COPIES

SECRET	REPRODUCTION PROHIBITES

DESTROY
$16.
PERSON/IT NOTIFIED

2
-5	RID COPY	ADVANCE COPY
............
TIME
TITLE, VR, C/WH to, C/CIC/FI. 2, C/S003, DOP, NHP

182192 CITE MANAGEA 5044
DIRECTOR, PANAMA CITY
TPIS ALWORLD	8317221

1.	AS ADDIESSEES AWARE, WHEN AMWORLD WAS CLOSED
OUT TWO YEARS AGO, AMBIDDY-I WAS AUTHORIZED TO HOLD
ROUGH EQUIVILENT OF WEAPONS TO ARM CHE RIFLE COMPANY.
WEAPONS STORED AT THE MONKEY POINT OPS BASE, AT EL PLUFF
SUPPORT CASE, AND IN MANAGUA. ABOUT ONE YEAR AGO, MONKEY
POINT BASE WAS CLOSED AND WEAPONS THERE MOVED TO EL BLUFF.
STORAGE IN SEALED CONCRETE VAULT UNDER THE FLOOR OF
SAFEHOUSE WHICH IS ON UNINHABITED SIDE OF BLUFF NEXT TO
AIRSTRIP BUILT SY ANWORLD. STRIP IS 1,883 BY SO FEET
WITH CLAY BASE MIXED WITH NATURAL ROCK.
....
:
2. ARMS IN MANAGUA HAVE BEEN STORED IN A SAFEHOUSE
OUTSIDE OF COPY AND CONSIST OF TWO WOODEN CRATES, EACH
ABOUT 150 POUNDS AND 37 BY 25 BY 14 INCHES.	RECORDS CFFICER STAM
CONTENTS ARE:	APPPYdining action is
25 PISTOLS .45 CAL	author : yy
5 RIFLES AR-15
3 SMG M3	Vatate

Notar If trustion, oite
roacune and coordinate:
if appropriate.
L
201-267437

PAGE 2 MANAGUA 6844 SECRET
2 SMG SYISS

6 PISTOLS 22 SILENCED

3. FORTY-FIVE BOXES OF UNKNOWN SIZES AND WEIGHTS ARE
STORED AT BLUFF. CONTENTS ARE ESTIMATED FROM MEMORY BY
ANTONIO SANZ, WHO WAS IN CHARGE OF STORING THEMS
4 HMG 50 CAL

2 RECOILLESS RIFLE 57 МИ
& MORTARS EL MM

2 MORTARS 60. MM

4 LMG 30 CAL

4 BAR
3 RIFLES FAL

18 SMG M3

10 CARBINES MI

3 CARBINES M2

10 AR-15
10 GARAND MI
4 SHOTGUNS 12 GUAGE

4 SMO X-PISTOL
AMMUNITION FOR ABOVE WEAPONS, C-3 AND C-4 EXPLOSIVE
L
PAGE 3 MANAGUA 6844 SECRET
WITHOUT DETONATORS, AMOUNT UNKNOWN, PLUS 123 TO 15 BOXES
GRENADES.

4. AMBIDDY-1 CONTACTED JAMES D. ZABOTH 4 MARCH, SAID
HE CLOSING OUT ALL HIS STATIONKEEPERS IN NICARAGUA, DID
NOT WANT. TO ABANDON WEAPONS TO FALL INTO WRONG HANDS, NOR
TO GIVE THEM TO NIC GOVT. GENERAL SOMOZA KNEW AMWORLD WAS
LEAVING BEHIND SOME RESERVE EQUIPMENT AND WOULD KEEP
ENOUGH WEAPONS FOR LOCAL SECURITY. HE DID NOT KNOW NUMBERS
AND TYPES REMAINING. AMBIDDY-1 ASKED IF WOFACT WISHED TO
RECOVER WEAPONS, OTHERWISE HE WOULD HAVE TO DUMP THEM IN
OCEAN. ZABOTH, AMBIDDY-1 AND AMJAVA-4, WHO IN MANAGUA ON
OTHER BUSINESS, VISITED BLUFF ISLAND 6 MARCH TO CHECK
SITUATION. IF HQS WISHES RECOVER WEAPONS, MOST FEASIBLE
METHOD IS BY AIR. A CARIBOU OR C-123 TYPE AIRCRAFT COULD
LAND ON BLUFF STRIP, LOAD WEAPONS AT NIGHT AND FLY THEM
OUT NEXT MORNING. IF HQS DOES NOT WISH RECOVER WEAPONS,
AMBIDDY-1 COULD BE TOLD TO MAKE OWN ARRANGEMENTS TO DOMP
WEAPONS AT SEA.
:
:
5. DESPITE AMBIDDY-I DESIRE NOT INFORM SOMOZA ABOUT
ARMS CACHE, COS FEELS THAT SOMOZA SHOULD BE INFORMED IF
L	SECTET

PAGE 4 MANAGUA 6844 SECRET
HAS DECISION IS THAT ARMS SHOULD BE RECOVERED. SOMOZA
COULD BE TOLD THAT "SOME EQUIPMENT" LEFT BEHIND BY AMWORLD.
GROUP NOW STORED AT BLUFF AND LNHARP WISHES RECOVER. BELIEVE
HE WOULD AGREE TO AIRCRAFT PICKUP AS PROPOSED ABOVE, IN
STATION OPINION BLACK RECOVERY WITHOUT SOMOZA KNOWLEDGE
TOO RISKY, STATION ALSO FEELS THESE WEAPONS SHOULD BE
REMOVED FROM CENTRAL AMERICA LEST THEY FALL INTO WRONG HANDS.
6. HQS PLEASE ADVISE BY CABLE.
SECRET
BT

NNNN

CABLE SEC DISSEM
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
PEN
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET	REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY ISTURE HOTTER
ACTION UNIT	FILE	VR	SOLAN OPS/NARZ YUPS
LAB			
ACTION	SOLAN OPS/NARZ YUPS
T 546453	514367	PAGE 81-81	IN 486480
		TOR:0522382 NOV 74	SJOS 17826

SECRET 8521552 NOV 74 STAFF
CITE SAN JOSE 17826
TO: DIRECTOR,
REAM
1. ACCORDING LOCAL DEA REP, MANUEL ARTIME BUESA
VISITED COSTA RICA DURING LAST WEEK OF OCTOBER. STAYED AT
HOTEL COSTA RICA WHERE HE REGISTERED IN ALIAS., ARTIME REPORTEDLY
MET WITH HIGH GOCR OFFICIALS INCLUDING HURILL-1, HUSTRAIGHT-1.
AND HUGALLY-SS AND ALLEGEDLY TOLD LATTER HE SENT BY "HIGH
OFFICIALS OF NVIDEA TO ASSURE HUGALLY-1 USG POLICY TOWARD.
CUBA HAD NOT CHANGED, CHARGE UNAWARE ANY CURRENT CONTACT
BETWEEN ARTING AND NVIDEA OFFICIALS. HUFABRIC-2 VERIFIED
ARTIME'S PRESENCE IN COSTA RICA.
2. FILE: 201-		E2 IMPDET
SECRET
RECORD COPY
TRAVEL PROGRAM
ABSTRACT
10
FF0 (8)

OUTGOING MESSAGE .
FO
CICATION
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
300 0 0.0
ASS CECRET	MESSAGE MANOLING CAPOR
15-1
1
STAFF

CONF: LA8	0700297	DIRECTOR	618814
		INFO: FLEVAN CHOP-2, LSNID,			DISSEM BY:
TO: SAN JOSE.Y	Aops			PER
REAMY
REF: SAN JOSE 178286 LIN 406400 *14

1. DO NOT BELIEVE ARTIME IN CURRENT CONTACT WITH 	AND
CERTAIN HE NOT AUTHORIZED, OFFICIALLY OR UNOFFICIALLY, TO SPEAK
011 STATE
ECCA 850BEHALF. IF HUGALLY-1 RAISES QUESTION, SUGGEST COS
RECOMMEND HE CHECK WITH CHARGE.Y

2. AS STATION AWARE, BKHERALD HAS HAD NO CONTACT WITH
ARTIME SINCE 1967.4

3. FILE:	201-0267437. E2 IMPDET.H

LA COMMENT:	MANUEL ARTIME BUESA VISITED COSTA RICA AND ASSURED
LEADERS ON BEHALF STATE DEPARTMENT THAT USG POLICY
TOWARD CUBA HAS NOT CHANGED.

TRAVEL PROGRAM
(2.8.

DATE:	6 NOVEMBER 1974
ORIG:	BARSARA GRAHAM BH
UNIT:	C/LMCAM/CNH
EXTI	1746/7163,

LA/COG
CORFU NETINKL
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE RECORDI COPY
301-367437
down
A2
C/LA/CAM
IMPUET
CL DYOS7047

CABLE SEC DISSEM
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT	RF. FILE	VR	SECRET
WH8		SUNB
ACTION	
T 458655	ΕΙΑ012	PAGE 81	IN 375452
			TOR:8116452 OCT 74	ΜΑΝΑ: 11399

SECRET 0114452 OCT 74 STAFF
CITE MANAGUA 11399
TO: PANAMA CITY INFO SAN JOSE DIRECTOR.
HYEPOCK
REF PANAMA CITY 38861 (N374491)
O
1. MANUEL ARTIME BUESA IS LONG TIME BUSINESS
ASSOCIATE NICARAGUAN LEADER ANASTASIO SOMOZA DEBAYLE
IN CATTLE AND SUPPLY CUNIFORMS) FOR NICARAGUAN NATIONAL GUARD.
THERE ISNO INFORMATION TO SUBSTANTIATE ARTIME INVOLVEMENT IN
ANY MILITARY/REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES. ALSO NO INDICATION GON
ENGAGING IN ANY POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AGAINST PANAMA. DEFER
HOSFOR ADDITIONAL COMMENT, BUT WISH POINT OUT ARTIME IS
FAVORITE TARGET FOR REVOLUTIONARY ALLEGATIONS IN CENTRAL
AMERICA.
2. FILE: 201-		E2 IMPDET

CRET
RECORD COPY
GS

CABLE SEC DISSEN B
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT	FILE	VR	SECRET

Whe	GTAN OPS/INT CI/OPZ
ACTION	PSEGY OSE
T456114	E14591	PAGE 01-01	IN 374491
			TOR: 3021092 SEP 74	PACY 38861

SECRET 3019522 SEP 74 STAFF
CITE PANAMA CITY 30061
TOS DIRECTOR INFO SAN JOSE, MANAGUA,
HYEPOCH
O
1. HYGRUFF-1 (LIAISON) REQUESTS ANY INFO INDICATING
THAT MANUEL ARTIME BUESA IS CONNECTED WITH MOVEMENTS
PLOTTING AGAINST GOVT OF PANAMA, 
HYORUFF
#6874-1 "KNOWS" ARTIME
IS CLOSELY CONNECTED WITH GOVT OF NICARAGUA AND TRAVELS TO
COSTA RICA WHERE HE CONNECTED WITH "MOVIMIENTOS SUBVERSIVOS
EN CONTRA DE PANAMA (SIC)."
2. ARTIME 201-		E2 IMPDET

SECRET
RECORD COPY
GS

L
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
11
OF O 0 ☐☐☐0

CLASSICATION
SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLINE MAR
STAFF

CONF:LA 8	0320442	DISSEM BY:
		INFO: FU IPIAN OPSIENNT		CIPE
TO: PANAMA CITY INFO SAN JOSE, MANAGUAY
HYEPOCHY
REF: PANAMA CITY 30061 |IN-374491*14

3. HAS HAS NO INFO IMPLICATING SUBJECT IN PLOTTING AGAINST
GOVT OF PANAMA. HE IS PRIMARILY INVOLVED IN IMPORTING MEAT FROM
NICARAGUA AND HAS BUSINESS FEELERS AND CUBAN EXILE CONTACTS THROUGH-
OUT LATIN AMERICA. OWING TO HIS FORMER PROMINENCE, HE IS OFTEN
CONSULTED BY LEADERS AND WOULD-BE LEADERS IN THE AREA. HOWEVER,
GIVEN HIS INTELLIGENCE, SOPHISTICATION, AND BUSINESS ACUMEN, IT IS
BELIEVED UNLIKELY THAT HE WOULD GET ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN REVOLUTION-
ARY PLANS.Y

"""FILET 20140267437. £2 IMPDET

NH COMMENT: #HYGRUFF-1 HAS REQUESTED INFO RE SUBJECTS CONNECTION
WITH MOVEMENTS PLOTTING AGAINST THE GOVT OF PANAMA.
GS
DATE:	3 OCT 74
ORIG:	ROBERT TO SHAW HLL
UNIT:	C/LA/PLANS
EXTI	1196
C/LAD
SECRET
RECORD COPY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Daul ar
AC/LA/CAM

IMPOET
CL BY: 054584

CABLE SEC SEM

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIEU

ADLANGE SUET BRVED. POLIS
ACTION 1
TO
HF

FILE VA
10-1
"
"
Stati

IPIAN OSG loc claps
OSGILC.
458655 E14212  PAGE #1 IN 375452
TOR:8116498 OCT 24  MANA 11399
)
SECRET 0114452 OCT 74 STAFF
CITE MANAGUA 11399
TOS PANAMA CITY INFO SAN JOSE DIRECTOR.
MYEPCCK
REF  PANAMA CITY 38863 (N374491)
1. MANUEL ART INEQUESA IS LONG TIME BUSINESS
ASSOCIATE NICARAGUAN LEADER ANASTASIO SOM02A DEBAYLE
IN CATTLE AND SUPPLY CUNIFORMS) FOR NICARAGUAN NATIONAL GUARD.
THERE ISNO ISNO INFORMATION TO SUBSTANTIATE ARTIME INVOLVEMENT IN
ANY MILITARY/REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES. ALSO NO INDICATION GON
ENGAGING IN ANY POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AGAINST PANAMA. DEFER
MOSFOR ADDITIONAL COMMENT, BUT HIS POINT OUT ARTIME IS
FAVORITE TARGET FOR REVOLUTIONARY REVOLUTIONARY ALLEGATIONS LEGATIONS IN CENTRAL
L
AMERICA.
62 IMPDET
CAST
L
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
20

ORF O 0.00
CLASSMEATION
SECRET
1
1
ESSAS
STAFF

CONF:LA B	0320442	DISSEM BY:
		INFO: FILE IPIAN OPSIINIT		PER
TO: PANAMA CITY INFO SAN JOSE, MANAGUA.Y
HYEPOCHY
REF: PANAMA CITY 30061 |IN-374491*14

3.. HAS HAS NO INFO IMPLICATING SUBJECT IN PLOTTING AGAINST
GOVT OF PANAMA HE IS PRIMARILY INVOLVED IN IMPORTING MEAT FROM
NICARAGUA AND HAS BUSINESS FEELERS AND CUBAN EXILE CONTACTS THROUGH-
OUT LATIN AMERICA. OWING TO HIS FORMER PROMINENCE, HE IS OFTEN
CONSULTED SY LEADERS AND WOULD-BE LEADERS IN THE AREA. HOWEVER,
GIVER HIS INTELLIGENCE, SOPHISTICATION, AND BUSINESS ACUMEN, IT IS
BELIEVED UNLIKELY THAT HE WOULD GET ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN REVOLUTION-
ARY PLANS.Y

"FILET 201-0267437 12-IMPACT************

CH COMMENT: #HYGRUFF-1 HAS REQUESTED TUFO RE SUBJECTS CONNECTION
WITH MOVEMENTS PLOTTING AGAINST THE GOVT OF PANAMA.
DATE:	3 OCT 74
ORIGI	ROBERT T. SHAW MLL
UNITI	C/LA/PLANS
EXTI	1196
C/LAD	AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
SECRET		E2
RECORD COPY			IMPDET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED	CL BY: 054524

CABLE SEC DISSEN

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOFAL COPIES 201
SECRET
FNVR IPLAN OPSLINT CI/OPZ
CARTAPSE COPY INDUER SLOTTED

ACTIONUNIT WHE		

FILE VR
M
PEGY OSG
ACTION
1 450114 E14591
PAGF 81-81  IN 374491
TOR: 3021092 SEP 74  PACY 38861

SECRET 3819522 SEP 74 STAFF
CITE PANAMA CITY 38061

TOI DIRECTOR INFO SAN JOSE, MANAGUA.
HYEPOCH
1. HYGRUFF-1 (LIAISON) REQUESTS ANY INFO INDICATING
THAT MANUEL ARTIME BUESA IS CONNECTED WITH MOVEMENTS
HYORUFF
PLOTTING AGAINST GOVT OF PANAMA 7 068741-1 "KNOWS" ARTIME
1S CLOSELY CONNECTED WITH GOVT OF NICARAGUA AND TRAVELS TO
COSTA RICA WHERE HE CONNECTED WITH "MOVIMIENTOS SUBVERSIVOS
EN CONTRA DE PANAMA (SIC)."

2. ARTIME 201- E2 IMPDET

SECRET
ACTION
PD

L
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
17-1
SEECRET
Lessage

104212
DIRECTOR
T
6-24
TESTONE

FILE  12 201-754738, 201-267437. IN
1112112
 267437. EA
1. BUSKIRT-2 SHOULD ADDRESS LETTER TO SUBJECT PARAS 1-2 OF REF AS
FOLLOUS:
DR. M. A. RUESA
3270 Ν.Ε. 85TH'ST.
MIAMI, FLA 33136

STATION SHOULD INFORM D-2 THAT BKHERALD HAS NO CURRENT RELATIONSHIP
WITH SUBJECT. CONSEQUENTLY, D-2 SHOULD NOT IMPLY TO SUBJECT THAT
BKHERALD WAS SOURCE ADDRESS. WOULD PREFER D-2 MAIL LETTER FROM PERU
HIMSELF RATHER THAN HAVE STATION POUCH ΤΟ ΜΙΑΜΙ. 4

2. HAS STRONGLY RECOMMENDS AGAINST D-2 GOING TO CUBAN EMB AND
REQUESTING RENEWAL PASSPORT. WE HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE OF ANY SUCH WELL-
KNOWN ANTI-CASTRO TYPES AS D-2 APPROACHING CUBAN EMB WITH SIMILAR
REQUEST. ب

3. FILE 201-754738, X-REF 201-267437. E2. IMPDET.
REQUESTED HAS PROVIDE ADDRESS OF FORMER AGENT AMBIDDY-L AND COMMENTS
RE FEASIBILITY D-2 APPROACHING CUBAN EMB WITH PASSPORT RENEWAL REQUEST.
DATE: & JUNE 1974
ORIG: JUAN VALADEZ
UNIT: WH/3/P
EXT: 1222
Josepu Sura EIN DRAFTI
C/WH/PLANS ROBERT T. SHAW CIN DRAFT)
DC/WH/COG-

DUTLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING
INTO 201-267437
C/WH/B
HECORD COPY FILED IN 201-75-4738
Wideney
C/WHD
RELEASING OPPIGER
CLASSIFATION
SOORSINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
22 IMPOT

:
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ARVANGE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UT
SECRET
oFFICE 18 45
R 245567 PAGE 21 IN 198954
FILE VR TORI120206Z MAR 74 MEXI 27299
SECRET 1288472 MAR 74 STAFF
CITE MEXICO CITY 27899

TOI DIRECTOR, WH/MIAΜΙ.
RYBAT KMSTONE KDALCOHOL
REF HMMA-44814

1. DURING RECENT KDALCOHOL-1 (K-1) MEETING WITH SLOTH-21,
LATTER PUSHED HIM HARD RE VARIOUS CUBAN EXILE TASKS. SLOTH-21
TOLD HIM THAT "HAVANA" HAD COMMENDED HIS REPORTING TO DATE ON
EXILES (ESSENTIALLY OVERT BIO AND BACKGROUND INFO AND CONTRIVED
SPECULATION BY K-1 CONCERNING EXILE INTENTIONS), FOLLOWING ITEMS
ON EXILES REPORTED TO STATION BY K-1 SEEM OF PARTICULAR INTERESTI
A. DURING DECEMBER VISIT MIAMI, K-1 MET WITH MANUEL
FRANCIS ARTIME BUESA (201-0267437). ARTIME ASKED K-1 LOOK
OUT FOR MEAT EXPORT/IMPORT OPPORTUNITIES IN MEXICO. ARTIME ALSO
TOLD K-1 THAT FROM TIME TO TIME HE MIGHT SEND K-1 (FROM A MIAMI
P., BOX) LETTERS TO BE SHUGGLED INTO CUBA VIA ANY OF R-1'S FRIENDS
TRAVELING THERE FROM MEXICO, K-1 TOLD THIS TO SLOTH-21 WHO BECAME
VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE MATTER, SLQTH-21 INSTRUCTED K-1 TO ALERT /10
HIH IF ANY LETTERS ARRIVE INONE HAVG SO FAR, ACCORDING TO.
SLOTH-21, LETTERS OF THIS SORT ARE MONITORED BY CUBAN SECURITY
RECORD COPY FILED IN-201-0908954
SECRET

L

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

AT
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTER

ACTION UNIT
STAFF

1
ACTION 5
5 945167 PAGE 22 IN 192954
		TORI123206Z MAR 74 MEXI 27899
OFFICIALS WHO THEN SURVEIL THE RECIPIENTS. THIS MAY PROVIDE
OPPORTUNITY FOR VWTOGA-TYPE OP INTENDED BUPN IMPORTANT CUBAN
OFFICIAL, RISK TO K-1 WOULD BE MINIMAL SINCE HE WOULD MERELY
BE INTERMEDIARY FOR LETTER OSTENISBLY COMING FROM ARTIME OR SOME
OTHER EXILE LEADER.
B. SLOTH-21 TOLD K-1 DEVELOP ALL POSSIBLE BACKGROUND
INFO ON JOSE IGNACIO RASCO BERMUDEZ (201-0274330), CUBAN
EXILE RESIDING IN MIAMI. WHILE SLOTH-21 DID NOT REVEAL REASON
FOR CUBAN INTEREST IN RASCO, BASED ON K-1'S KNOWLEDGE OF RASCO
AND SLOTH-21'S MANNER, K-1 BELIEVES THAT RASCO ATTEMPTING DIALOGUE
WITH CUBAN GOVERNMENT. K-1 KNOWS RASCO ONLY SLIGHTLY, BUT KNOWS
HIS BROTHER, RAMON, WELL. K-1 AND RAMON RASCO WERE ASSOCIATED
WITH A CREDIT UNION IN MIAMI SOME YEARS AGO. K-1 MET RAMON BY
CHANCE WHILE IN MIAMI IN DECEMBER, K-1. KNOWS JOSE RASCO AS LEADER
IN DEMOCRATIC CHRISTIAN MOVEMENT IN MIAMI. STATION CARD ON JOSE
RASCO LISTS HIM AS PRESIDENT OF MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO
DE CURA" AS OF AUGUST 1968. CARD ALSO INDICATES THAT "GOBERNACION"
HAS A CLASSIFIED FILE ON JOSE RASCO.
C. SLOTH-21 INSTRUCTED K-1 TO COPY FROM FILES OF DR.
JOSE MARIA CRUCET BERNAL, CUBAN EXILE ORTHODONTIST WITH
SECRET

14-00000

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
AT
ARYANGE COPY ISSUED LOTTER
ACTION UNIT
L
RF. FILE. VR. SETE:
ACTION
5 945167	PAGE 03	IN 198954
			TORI120206Z MAR 74	MEXI 27899

WHOM K-1 IS ASSOCIATED PROFESSIONALLY, NAMES AND BIO DATA ON ALL
CUBAN EXILES, SLOTH-21 SPECIFICALLY ASKED FOR THE NAMES OF IN-
DIVIDUALS REFERRING PEOPLE TO DR. CRUCET.

D. SLOTH-21 HAS INSTRUCTED K-1 TO INFILTRATE AND BECOME
INDISPENSABLE TO THE "CIRCULO CUBANO DE MEXICO," SLOTH-21 SPECIF
SCALLY ASKED FOR THE IDENTITY OF THE "CIRCULO" OFFICIAL WHO CONTROLS
THE CLUB'S MAILING LIST AND DISTRIBUTES PROPAGANDA TO EXILES,
SLOTH-21 HOPEFUL THAT ONCE K-1 REACHES A LEADERSHIP ROLE IN THE
CLUB THAT HE CAN SERVE AS SPOTTER AND ARRANGE FOR FILM SHOWINGS
WITH FILMS PROVIDED BY SLOTH-21. INTERESTINGLY, WHEN.K-1 TOLD
SLOTH-21 THAT HE (K-1) MIGHT MAKE A SHORT SPEECH AT THE CLUB DURING
MAY 1974 CUBAN INDEPENDENCE CEREMONIES. SLOTH-21 CAUTIONED HIM
AGAINST SAYING ANYTHING CRITICAL OF CASTRO REGIME, ALSO OF INTEREST
IS FACT SLOTH-21 DECLINED REIMBURSE K-1 FOR "CIRCULO" ENTRANCE
FEGS, SLOTH-21 INSISTED THAT IF K-1 BELIEVES IN "THE REVOLUTION"
THE WILL ADD THE COST OF FEE ONTO THE BILL OF ONE OF HIS CAPITALIST
PATIENTS.

EM BASED ON REPORT TO SLOTM-21 THAT K-1'S FRIEND AND
FELLOW "NUEVA GENERACION" MEMBER, RAFAEL ANGEL QUEVEDO,
PLANS VISIT MEXICO AND HOPES SETTLE HERE. SLOTH-31 ASKED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
:

THE VANCE PY BUED
L
STORR
424
1
SECRET
STAFF
17.
3
P45167
. PAGE 44 IN 198954
			 TOR:1282862 MAR 74	MEXI 27899

IF K-1 COULD GET QUEVEDO TO COOPERATE WITH CUBAN GOVERNMENT AS
K-1 IS DOING, K-1 TOLD SLOTH-21 THAT HE THOUGHT THIS WAS A
POSSIBILITY. CACTUALLY, K-1 IS ALMOST CERTAIN QUEVEDO, WHOM
HE DESCRIBED AS ANTI-CASTRO AND ANTI-COMMUNIST, WOULD "COOPERATE"
WITH CUBANS ONLY IF HE WERE RECRUITED BY U.S. GOVERNMENT.)

2. IN ORDER INSPIRE K-1 IN HIS OVERT ROLE, SLOTH-21 TOLD HIM
STORY ABOUT TONY SANTIAGO, CUBAN MILITARY COMMANDER WHO PRETENDED
TO WORK FOR BKHERALD AND WAS VIEWED BY CUBANS AS A TRAITOR UNTIL
THE STORY OF HIS DOUBLE AGENT ROLE CAME TO LIGHT AFTER HIS DEATH
"AT HANDS OF BKHERALD." PRESUME THIS STORY KNOWN TO ADDRESSEES.
3. SLOTH-21 TOLD K-1 THAT "HAVANA WANTED HIM AVAILABLE FOR
BRIEF ASSIGNMENT TO CARACAS IN JULY OR AUGUST 1974. HE IS TO
TAKE HIS WIFE TO MAKE IT APPEAR THAT HE IS ON HOLIDAY. K-1 TOLD
BLOTH-21 THAT HE COULD MAKE THE TRIP IF HE HAD SUFFICIENT ADVANCE
NOTICE AND KNEW EXACTLY WHAT IS EXPECTED OF HIM. K-1 HAS INVITA-
TION FROM CLAT OFFICIALS EMILIO MASPERO AND EDUARDO
GARCIA TO VISIT CARACAS NEXT SUMMER, SO HE COULD COVER
BOTH MATTERS DURING ONE TRIP. K-1 WILL MAKE TRIP ONLY IF WE
CONCUR AND ONLY IF HE IS CERTAIN THAT RISK IS MINIMAL. IT WOULD
APPEAR SLIME PLANS USE HIM AS COURIER OF SOME SORT.

T
i

:
PERSONI UNIT NOTIFIED

EDYANGE COPY ISSUED LOTTER
ACTION UNIT

ACTION Y 945167
RF. FILE .
ILE VR
3

31

STAFF
1

REING OFFICE
PAGE 05-85
TOR:120286Z MAR 74
1
3
IN 190954
MEXI 27899

4. SLOTH-21 CONTINUES TO INSIST THAT K-1 AGREE TO SPOT,
CULTIVATE AND ASSESS SOMEONE IN THE U.S. EMBASSY AS A POSSIBLE
PENETRATION AGENT. SLOTH-21'S GUIDANCE HAS RANGED FROM AMERICAN
SECRETARY TO A CONSUL OR VICE CONSUL TO A MEXICAN EMPLOYEE. AS
INSTRUCTED BY US, K-1 HAS RESISTED TASK ON BASIS HIS OSTENSIBLE
FEAR THAT BECAUSE OF HIS DISSIDENT/LEFTIST LABOR BACKGROUND, U.S.
EMBASSY COULD HAVE HIM EXPELLED FROM MEXICO. SLOTH-21 REFUSES
ACCEPT THE EXCUSE AND INSISTS THAT