104-10438-10186
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

23 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Call from Jon French of DCD Concerning Frank
STURGIS

1. The following information was provided to Jon French
by his DCD Miami office on 23 August. The information was
given to the DCD Miami office by a contact (not identified)
on 23 August who obtained it from Oscar FREELY. FREELY is
writing a book on Frank STURGIS.

2. STURGIS is to appear on the Tomorrow Show at 2 a.m.
on 24 August, which is to be narrated by Tom Schneider.
STURGIS just recently returned to Miami from taping the show
in New York.

3. While in New York STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and
obtained from her a book which, according to source, appeared
to be cryptographic material and seemed to relate to Albania.
The DCD source saw a "few copies" of what he described as
"mathematical matrix" material.

4. STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) is attempting
to contact Senator Baker to turn over the material to him.
DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the situation and advise
whether the material in fact is turned over to Baker.

Chris Hopkins
LA/COG/CIOS

201-242256 STURGIS

Told Tech That D'ED should releas
ADDO & Phil FENDIG - lea will do.
8/23
:
D002140

13-00000
TPE 5 FPE 80 81 82 83 84 $351 D-002140

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (CI/cle if appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS) DAY MONTH YEAR
CABLE 23 AU676
FORM
DISPATCH
LETTER
MEMO
AIRGRAM
FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARASTERS) TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)
LA/COG/CIOS The RecorD
CLASS WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS) REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS) DDO 1 DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)
S 20-242256

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)
CAll FROM JON FRENCH OF DCD CONCERNING
FRANK STURGIS
Determinations: TYPE A DATE
OF REVIEW REVIEW DAY MONTH YEAF
7 A. Release in full text E. Sustain initial denial in toto
B. Release in sanitized form F. Sustain initial release of
C. beny in toto of sanitized version
D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8) G. Release additional information
H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)
DEFER DECISION TO (10 CHARACTERS COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)
NEW
CLASS 8
EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)
9
FOIA E.O. 12356
PA
B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 B6 B7C BJI JI J1 K1
Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:
FOIA PA
1. Classification (b) (1) (k) (1)
2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government (b) (3) (j)(1)
3. Information pertaining to a liaison (b) (3) (j) (1)
::"י relationship with a Foreign Government
T
4. Information which would/could identify the (b) (3) (j) (1)
source
5. Information pertaining to a source (b) (3) (j) (1)
6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b) (3) (j) (1)
7. Location of CIA overseas installation (b) (3) (j) (1)
10 8. Location of unacknowledged domestic (b) (3) (j) (1)
installation
9. Name of CIA employee (b) (3) (j) (1)
10. File number (b) (3) (j) (1)
11. Pseudonym : (b) (3) (j) (1)
12. Cryptonym (b) (3) (j)(1)
13. Internal organizational data (b) (3) (j) (1)
14. Name of an FBI agent (b) (7) (c) (j) (1)
15. FBI file number (b) (2) (j) (1)
16. Privacy of other individual (b) (6) (b)
17. Does not pertain to request
19. Other (Specify in line 11)
REMARKS
REMARKS (IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) (40 CHARACTERS)
11
REMARKS (160 CHARACTERS)
12 HSCA BOX 2#16

13
14
SIGNATURE/OFFICE OF DO COMPONENT REVIEWING OFFICEI
This Form is Unclassified Unless The Classification is Ch
and The Information below is completed.
CL BY:
DECL OADR
DRV FROM:
