104-10234-10155	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AMLASH/1 - Paris Station Aspect

Paris Station involvement with the AMLASH case began in 1962, after AMLASH/1
came to Paris after attending the Helsinki Youth Festival that year. In Helsinki,
AMLASH/1 was contacted by UNRUMBLE/? (an asset of the Paris Station who attended the
Festival for purposes of disruption) and by other KUBARK assets. It is not clear from
our files just when ANLASH/1 was "recruited" but it appears that he was recruited during
or shortly after the Festival.

In Paris he was in contact with Peter J. KIMINGHAM (probably in alias although
I know that AMLASH/1 was at KIMINGHAM's home upon occasion). In 1962 AMLASH/1 was
given training in explosives by OHMX (I believe) upon request of the Paris Station.
He appears to have returned to PERUM in late 1962. It is not known if other Paris
Station personnel were in contact with ANLASH/1 during that period.

AMLASH/1 next arrived in Paris on 1h September 1963, coming from the International
Games held in Porto Alegre, Brasil, where he was in contact with TYPIC officers.
At this point AMBFORT/1 (now QUEFORT) was in contact with ANLASH/1.in Paris and AM/HIP/1
was another commo channel (the case being used primarily by HQs.). The Headquarters
TYPIC officer, ONTRICH (F), arrived in Paris on 3 October 1963 and picked up the contact
with AMLASH/1 which was being maintained by AMBFORT/1 and KIMINGHAM. The meetings with
AMLASH/1 took place in  a home as best I remember. These discussions concerned
ANLASH/1's plans to assassinate AMPED and overthrow his regime.

ONTRICH returned to Paris in late October, after discussions at Headquarters
on the cars. ONTRICH and DAI HOID, who was tay in Paris at the time, met with ANLASH/1
in late October or early November. DAI HOID's participation was due to ANLASH/1 strong
desire to talk with some high-level ODYOKE official concerning his plans and to obtain
ODYOKE blessing if possible. I am not aware of exactly what happened at these
meetings but I received the impressionfon KYMINGHAN that such blessing was given.

AMLASH/1 returned to PERUMEN on 27 November 1963. It was during this visit to Paris

AMLASH -1

2.
that STOCKFOOD met ANLASH/1 and ASHIP/1, presumably in alias but I do not know the
details. It was also apparent by the time ANLASH/1 left that he knew UNSHAFU/5 was
working for KUBARK and we knew that UNSHAFU/5 was aware to some extent of ANLASH/1's
plans (UNSHAFU/9 had been recruited by KUBARK at that time). It was agreed
that ANLASH/1 would send the address of UNSHAFU/13's parents for a/e letters to
KUBARK (UNSHAFU/13 is wife of UNSHAFU/9).

ANLASH/1 next arrived in Paris in late November or early December 1964. AMSHIP/1
STOCKFOOD and ONTRICH (day from Headquarters) met with him in Paris (this time in
a safe house of the Station). ANLASH/1 left for PERUMEN from Madrid on 20 February
1965. During this stay in Paris ANLASH/1 met the following KUBARK staffers and
agents:

STOCKFOOD, GLOADEN, RODANER
AMHIP/1, RISKAPT)?, UNSHAFU/5, UNSHAFU/13
•
You will recall that in December 1964 UNSHAFU/5 had a nervous breakdown and
ANLASH/1 played an important part in convincing UNSHAFU/5 that he should agree to
hospitalisation. It was in this connection that GLOADEN and RODANER met ANLASH/1.
GLOADEN subsequently met with ANLASH/1 two or three times to received reports for
STOCKFOOD. These meetings were three meetings or in the home of UNSHAFU/5.
During this stay, ANLASH/1 traveled to Madrid at least once to meet with ANBIDDY/2
and ANBANG/1. I am not aware of results of three meetings except that ANLASH/1 was
scolding the physical instruments to carry out the plan to eliminate AMPED.

There was no additional contact with ANLASH/1 in Paris subsequent to February
1965 but the Station (GLOADEN and HERLIES) did have subsequent contact with UNSHAFU/5,
UNSHAFU/9, ANLASH/2 and ANLASH/3. You will recall that that that was ANLASH/3 who made
the foliage pitch to MERCURES on 6 May 1968. ANLASH/2 and AMLASH/3 were both aware
of ANLASH/1 plans.

Paris Station personnel known to ANLASH/1:

Peter J. KIMINGHAM
- not known what alias used.  Some meetings were held in
KIMINGHAM's home in 1962/63.  It is not known if other staff
personnel (other than ONTRICH) were met then by ANLASH/1.
Jul K. STOCKFOOD
- calliss not known for sure but believe he used "Roberts",
AMHELP/1 knew STOCKFOOD as embassy officer and called him there.
• Known as "Dick". True name not used unless told to ANLASH/1
by UNSHAFU/5 or UNSHAFU/9.
- Peter N. GLOADEN

Milton P. RODANER
- not ANLASH/L only once, when transporting UNSHAFU/5 to hospital.
Known to all Ae "Dr ......" (cant remember alias used).
- cleared Dr. at American Hospital, Paris. ANLASH/1 met him
briefly when admitting UNSHAFU/5 to hospital.
- met in 1962 during explosives training in Paris. Details not
Dr. Lipsich

Wallace A. GROWERY
(from OHMX)
Agents (involved to some degree)
UNSHAFU/5
UNSHAFU/9
UNSHAFU/13
ANLASH/2
ANLASH/3
AMHIP/1

Peter N. GLOADEN
7 March 1966
