1104-10075-10373
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

24
SECRET

ROUTING
1.________
2.________
3.________

• DIRECTOR

UMWAVE
ACTION : C/SAS: 5

INFO : LUP, ADDP, RI/AN DURMY, D/OC 2/VR

PET 222912Z

OUT : WAVE 2395

OPTIC : ATHENA PETSOS COMMO

A. WAVE 7588 (IN 61661)

B. WAVE 7591 (IN 61630) (11 8171784)

C. WAVE 7793 (IN 64066)

D. WAVE 7756 (IN 64001)

E. WAVE 7861 (IN 64751)

F. WAVE 7964 (IN 58804)

G. WAVE 8116 (IN 67280)

H. WAVE 8117 (IN 67249)

I. WAVE 8119 (IN 67271)

J. WAVE 8134 (IN 63356)

K. WAVE 8140 (IN 67664)

L. WAVE 8262 (IN 69684)

1. FOLL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS:

70. RECEIVED MESSAGE 34. RUBEN RECOMMENDS JOSE 11511
GONZALEZ CANTO BECAUSE HE WAS A SERGEANT IN THE OLD ARMY AND KNOWS HOW
TO HANDLE DIFFERENT WEAPONS AND SOME EXPLOSIVES. RAMON AND MARIC ARE
COMING. TELL US WHAT PICTURES OF MARIO YOU WANT. THE ONE THAT
DOIMEADIOS RECOMMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE IS CRESTE TAMAYO MUNGS.

SECRET

***

14-00000

ASSIFIED MESSAGE
PAGE 2

PROFESSOR AT THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE. I WILL CONTACT RENE THROUGH
DOIMEADIOS SAYS THAT CAMAY RECOMMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE.
71. CONTINUATION. MEDARDO SILVA MARRERO, BORN IN HOLGUIN.
OCTOBER 1927. LIVES LOS NOSCONES NEIHBORHOOD. SON
AND ALTA GRACIA. WORKS IN THE ASALT PLANT LOCATED IN THE
THE HOLGUIN MILITIA AIRPORT.

72. RECEIVED MESSAGE 35. WILL SEND BIO DATA ON RENE BEFORE
CONTACT WITH HIM. ROBERTO ZAYAS WILL WORK IN THE ACTION CELL.
THE LOCATION OF THE HOUSE NEAREST THE POINT, IT IS MORE THAN
THREE KILOMETERS AWAY. THE POINT CAN BE REACHED BY A SECONDARY
THERE ARE NO PATROLS NOR OBSERVATION POSTS NEAR, THE NEAREST ONE IS
ABOUT 12 KILOMETERS. TELL US WHEN YOU CAN HAVE A RE-SUPPLY OPERATION.
A FEW SABOTAGE OBJECTIVES, DATA SENT BY MA. ON NEXT TRANSMISSION
WILL SEND SOME DETAILS OF OBJECTIVES CHOSEN.
73. BIOGRAPHIC DATA ON RENE CRUZ PAMON, BORN IN VICTORIA
TURNS ON 23 MAY 1929. LIVES IN HAIAN SANTANA A
PRICE. IS A PAPER MAKER. SON OF ROBERTO AND MANUELA, MARRIED TO
VELAZQUEZ? HAS ONE DAUGHTER NAMED ANAUELA.
DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN RECOMMEND ROBERTO LECON PING FING
HE WAS BORN IN HOLGUIN. CONTINUES.

74. CONTINUATION. BORN ON 22 APRIL 1932, LIVES IN
12. WORKS IN THE ELECTRIC PLANT OF HOLGUIN. RAPID INVESTIGATION
OF THESE PEOPLE IS NECESSARY.

75. AGUILAR HAS RECOMMENDED TO ME FOR ACTION AGENT IN PUERTO
***

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN 71784 PAGE 3

PADRE RAMON DANIEL VALDES LEON NATIVE OF HAVANA. BORN 21 RPT 21 JUNE 195
RPT 1915. SON OF HERIBERTO AND TERESA MARRIED TO LINA PACHECO RONDON
LIVES IN BATET, CHAPAPRA REPARTO MIRAKAR, PUERTO PADRE. WORKS AS MALE NURSE
THIS MAN CONTROLS LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE ZONE.

76. RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN
RECOMMENDS FOR ACTION ALFREDO DIAZ GONZALEZ BORN IN MANZANILLO. BORN
(4421916?)
17 OCTOBER 1916. SON OF MANUEL AND TOMACA. WORKS AS CHIEF OF THE
EQUIPMENT WORKSHOPS OF THE OBRAS PUBLICAS (PUBLIC WORKS). LIVES IN
GENERAL FERIA, 193. CONTINUES.

77. CONTINUATION. RUBEN ALSO RECOMMENDS LEONARDO PUPO
ROMERO PORN IN HOLGUIN. SON OF FRANCISCO AND MARIA. BORN ON 23 AUGUST
1939. LIVES IN THE EXTENSION OF PERALTA 36, HARLEM SECTION. WORKS ON CARGO

SHIPS OF HIGHWAY TRANSPORTATION (SIC). I NEED PESOS, TELL US IF YOU CAN
MAKE ANOTHER CACHE. WE ARE RECRUITING ACTION PERSONNEL IN HIDDEN PLACES.
SENT REPORTS ON TARGETS ON 17 NOVEMBER. CONTINUATION.

78. CONTINUATION. TELL ME WHAT OTHER TYPE OF INFORMATION
YOU NEED ON THE TANK PARK I REPORTED. I WILL ORDER AGUILAR TO INVEST-
IGATE WHO LIVES AT PUNTO TOMATE. THE EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL I WILL USE AS
SELECTED TARGETS. THE OTHER MATERIAL WILL BE BURIED. THE SUPPLIES WILL BE
CARRIED IN THE TRUCK OF MARIO TORLARO. THE EXPLOSIVES WERE DEPOSITED
(SIC) IN THE FARM OF YULET. COORDINATES 584292, MAP SHEET 4979 IV.
***
14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN 71784 PAGE 4

MAP SHEET 4979 IV IS SURROUNDED BY BAR BED WIRE FENCE. ONLY
GUARD ARMED WITH A SOVIET PPSH WEAPON. IT IS IN A SENTRY BOX WITH
PHONE LOCATED IN FRONT OF THE AGUAS CLARAS AND UNAS HIGHWAYS JUNCTION
THERE ARE SEVERAL ANTI-AIRCRAFT INSTALLED ON A HILL AT NORTH, NOT BEING AB
DETERMINE WHAT TYPE. THE AREA OF ALL THE CAMP IS APPROXIMATELY 1
KILOMETER, THE AREA OCCUPIED BY THE TANKS IS ABOUT 1900 METERS.
TANKS SEEM TO BE T-54S.

79. RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT CAMAY
COMMENDS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE CELL JUAKANIN ROBERTO MAUPINO MIRANDA.
IN MATANZAS, SON OF ROBERTO AND TERESA. BORN ON 16 SEPT 1918.
MARRIED TO INES FERIA. HAS TWO CHILDREN, ROBERTO AND INES. THIS MAN WAS
CHEF OF THE RURAL CORPS DURING THE PRIO GOVERNMENT. HE WAS THEN PRIVATE
INVESTIGATOR FOR SEARS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL AND BANKING FIRMS. RAPID
INVESTIGATION ONE THESE PEOPLE IS NECESSARY.

80. RECEIVED MESSAGE 37. CONTACT IN VICTORIA WOULD BE RENE
CARAMO. RENE HAS BEEN KNOWN TO ME FOR SOME YEARS THROUGH COHORT OF
FELIPE CRUE COLON, DELICIA FARA. ALSO RENE WAS INTERVIEWED IN
MARTIN COMPANY IN PUERTO PADRE. IN VICTORIA RENE WORKS WITH OP. STING
LAWYER IN VICTORIA. TRYING TO INVESTIGATE SCHOOLS ATTENDED.

YOU CAN PROVIDE SOME HONEY EXPENSES ARE VERY HIGH HERE.
STATION COMMENT: PLS INDEX FOR WAVE FILES WITH LECSE
FORMATION RECEIVED FROM GOC CONTROLLED AGENT, VALIDITY OF
LATION CANNOT BE DETERMINED.".

CRET
