14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE
Nov 13

SECRET
2614442
CIA
115000

CONF	CLAE	INFO: FILE CIPNGAYS,CACER,COND.
DISSEM BY:

G	C/PCS, AGC/ODO
PER	São

132
TO:	FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/PATTA: R.K. MCHEFSUE/GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE -- SENSITIVE INTELLISENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS Y

CIR-316/03605-77

SUBJECT:	INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF ORLANDO LETELIERS INFORMATION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF CORU V

REFERENCE:	FIRC:312/03290-774 7 OCTOBER 1977

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION PERTAINS TO INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED IN REFERENCE. THIS INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY EUGENE M. PROPPER.Y

2. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON ROBERTO CARRERAS, AN ARGENTINE NATIONAL WHO WAS IDENTIFIED AS A FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE GULF AND WESTERN CORPORATION AT THE FALCONERIDGE PROJECT, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (SIC) AND WHO IS CURRENTLY EMPLOYED BY "EL FOSARIO" MINE. CHEADQUARTERS COMMENT: IN DECEMBER 1976 THE SAME SOURCE WHO PROVIDED PARAGRAPHS 2-6 OF REFERENCE REPORTER THAT EULALIO FRANCISCO "FRANK" CASTRO PAZ AND ROLANDO OTERO CHERNANDEZ TRAVELLED AT LEAST

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

201-284811

DO KOT DESTROY

E 2 IMPORT

14-00000

Nov 1631478 77
CIA
115000
SECRET

CONFL	INFO FILE
DISSEM BY:

PER
TUICE TO LA FROMANA TO SEE ALVARO CARTA, CUBAN BORN PRESIDENT OF GULF AND WESTERN AMERICAS, TO SEEK ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE. (SANTO
DOMINGO 'STAZION COMMENT: CABTA NOW HAS A TOP JOB WITH GULF AND
BESTERN IN GORAL GABLES, FLORIDA.

3. RUBEN SOTO IS PROSABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE SOTO PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED TO YOU AS ONE OF THE BEST FRIENDS OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARMAND MONTES. SOTO, THE OWNER OF "LA FRANCESA" BAKERY (PASTRY
•	SHOOPY AND A CUBAN EXILE、IS KNOWN TO BE CLOSE TO ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND FRANK CASTRO.Y

A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY REPORTED IN LATE 1976 THAT HE WAS TOLD BY A CUBAN EXILE IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC THAT A DELEGATION OF LOCAL CUBANS, AMONG THEM RUBEN 'SCTO, WAS SOLICITING MONEY FOR CUBAN RIGHTIST ACTIVITIES.Y

ONE RUBEN SOTO HAYET, WHO WAS BORN IN ISLA DE PINOS, CUBA, ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1937, WAS A MEMBER OF BRIGADE 250L AND WAS A CAN-
DIDATE TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 1962. THERE HAS BEEN NO AGENCY CONTACT WITH SCTBO HAYET SINCE THEN.Y

IN 1963 ONE RUBEN SOTO AULET, POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH RUBEN

SECRET
E 2
IMPDET
CL 61: 309499

14-00000

CIA
115000
OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

CO	INFO FILE
2
DISSEM BY:

PER
SOTO HAVET, WAS DESCRISED AS A FORMER 2506 BRIGADE MEMBER WHO WAS AN EXECUTIVE MEMBER OF THE MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY
(MPP3.4

4. IN DECEMBER 1976 THE SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2 - 6 OF REFERENCE REPORTED THAT IN JULY OR AUGUST 1976, DURING A MEETING OF
A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES AT THE PIZZA RESTAURANT IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ARMANDO CABALLEROS, OWNER OF THE RESTAURANT, SPOKE OFENLY

:	ABOUT PLAINS TO ASSASSINATE "UN GRAN FUNCIONARIO AMERICANO" IN COSTA RICA. CHEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PLEASE SEE CIOL-0445-76, 23 DECEMBER 1976. WHICH PROVIDED YOU WITH INFORMATION ON TERRORIST PLOTTING OF
CUSAN EXILES AND INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ACTIVITIES OF U.S.
ARMY MAJOR MONTES. IN RELATION TO THE PARAGRAPH TWO MEETING. SOURCE REPORTED THAT THE PARTICIPANTS DISCUSSED THE FACT THAT FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER MET IN EITHER MEXICO OR COSTA RICA WITH
"AN IMPORTANT FIGURE IN THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT NAMED HART" (PROBABLY

ARMANDO HART DAVALOS). KISSINGER WAS LABELED A TRAITOR AND PLANS WERE DISCUSSED TO ASSASSINATE HIM IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH COORDINATING THIS ACTION WAS PETER COP PEDRO

SECRET

E 2

:	IMPDET
CL BY: 009499

14-00000

:
CIA
115000
SECRET

MASSAGE MADIO NOOCATOIR
CONF

INFO: FILE
DISSEM BY:

PER
MARTINEZ. SOURCE BELIEVED THAT MARTINEZ RESIDED IN MIAMI. THE
PLAN WAS NOT CARRIED OUT BECAUSE THE "CIA FOUND OUT" AND "AN

#
IMPORTANT EXILE." IDENTIFIED AS MANOLO REYES, WHO ALSO LIVED IN
MIAMI, OSJECTED AND THREATENED TO ADVISE
POLITICIAN
A PROMINENT
0.50

ONE ARMANDO CABALLERO PARODI, WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 10 JULY 1941, WAS A FORMER MEMBER OF THE 2506 BRIGADE. HE WAS

:	TERMINATED BY THIS AGENCY IN MAY 1963. IN LATE 1963 STHERE WAS
• INTERES'T IN USING CABALLERO IN TEACHING INFILTRATION TECHNIQUES BUT
THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT HE WAS CONTACTED IN THIS REGARD.Y

5. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON DANILO GONZALEZ、IDENTI-
FIED AS PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN CLUB IN SANTO DOMINGO, OR ON LOCAL
1070
EMPLOYEES OF THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN SANTO DOMINGO, JOSE RENE ROMAN,

JOSE JEREZ OR FRANKLIN POLANCO.
10-201
6. JORAGE ALONSO PUJOLS IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JORGE ALONSO-
PUJOL BERMUDEZ WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 20 JULY 1923. HE IS THE

21063
SON OF FORMER CUBAN VICE PRESIDENT GUILLERMO ALONSO-PUJOL, WHO SERVED DURING THE ADMINISTRATION OF CARLOS PRIO. ALONSO-PUJOL RECEIVED

SECRET
E2
IMPDET
CL EY: CO१५११

14-00000

CIA
115000
SECRET

TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY DURING 1961 AND WAS CAPTUREDBAT THE BAY
OF PIGS. HIS FATHER PURPOTEDLY PAID $100,000 FOR HIS SON'S RELEASE.

-	HOWEVER, AT THE TIME THE RANSOM WAS EFFECTED, THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE SPECULATION AMONG EXILES IN THE MIAMI AREA THAT HIS FATHER DID NOT
PAY THE RANSOM BUT HAD MADE A DEAL WITH THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT FOR
ALONSO-PUJOL TO UNDERTAKE PRO-CASTRO PROPAGANDA IN LATIN AMERICA IN
EXCHANGE FOR HIS FREEDOM. ALONSO-PUJOL WAS ARRESTED IN MIAMI IN
:	JUNE 1970 ON NARCOTICS-RELATED CHARGES: IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFOR-
MATION ON JORGE ALONSO-PUJOL BERMUDEZ.4

7. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTHEFY
100-20
ERNESTO HERNANDEZ BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMA-
ΤΙΟΝ.Υ
1-834598

134-834598
8. PABLO MARTIN IS THE PEN NAME USED BY AVENOL FRANCO, WHO IS ALSO KNORUN AS FRANCISCO AVENOLL. FRABCO, WHO "MAY NOT BE IDENTICAL
WITH THE MARTIN MENTIONED IN REFERENCE, WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 26 JUNE
1936. FRANCO HAS SERVED AS PROPAGANDA SECRETARY FOR THE CUBAN EXILE
ORGANIZATION "JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA" AND WAS EDITOR OF THE ANTI-CASTRO

SECRET
E 2
IMPDET
CL BY:009५११

14-00000

CIA
115000
SECRET

CONF:	INFO: FILE
DISSEM BY:

PER
PUBLICATION "AMIGO DEL PUEBLO" AS OF MAY 1968.4
1201-853367

9. FRANK TEIRA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH FRANCISCO ANTONIO
1201-853367
TEIRA ALAEBFONSO WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 12 JULY 1934. TEIRA IS A FORMER CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO JUNPED SHIP IN PANAMA IN
JULY 1969 AND REQUESTED ASYLUM. HE HAS APPEARED BEFORE THE U.S.
SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY AND HAS GIVEN TESTIMONY REELATING
TO THE COMMUNIST THREAT TO THE U.S. VIA THE CARIBBEAN.Y

10. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY LUIS
NOT
ROSS BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.Y
201-332287
11. JOSE AGUILA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH JOSE RAMON FLORENCIO

AUILA CALIMANO WHO WAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBA, ON 27 OCTOBER 1932. A
AGUILA HAS LONG BEEN IDENTIFIED AS AN INFORMANT FOR DOMINICAN INTELLIGENCE.V
-201-278826

12. ONE A. WILFREDO BLANCO DEL CASTILLO, BORN IN GUINES, CUBA,
ON & FEBRUARY 1943. WAS SCHEDULED TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING
FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 1961. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON A. WILFREDO BLANCO DEL CASTILLO.Y

13. LEVI MARRERO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH LEVI C. MARRERO

SECRET

E 2

•	MPDET
CL LY: 309५११

14-00000

CIA
115000
SECRET

DISSEM BY:

PER
#
ARTILES WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 5 OCTOBER 1910. MARRERO HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE (PRP) SINCE ITS
FORMATION IN COSTA RICA IN NOVEMBER 81972.4

14. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY JOSE LUIS PRADO BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.Y
231-3572EO

15. ANDRES SARGEN IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ANDRES NAZARIO
SARGEN WHO WAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBA, ON 11 MARCH 1926. NAZARIO IS A LONG TIME ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVIST AND SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE
CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION "ALPHA 66."4
201-2178117

16. JORGE MAS CANOSA IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JORGE LINCOLN
201-297817ament
MAS CANOSA WHO WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1939. MAS WAS RECRUITED BY THIS AGENCY IN MARCH 1961 TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
BAY OF PIGS INVASION. HE HAS NOT BEEN USED BY THIS AGENCY IN ANY BOPERATIONAL CAPACITY SINCE THE BAY OF PIGS. MAS HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN
THE CURBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECE) GROUP. IN JANUARY 196Ь НЕ WAS THE SUBJECT OF A DEPARTEMENT OF JUSTICE INQUIRY REGARDING CER-
TAIN INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN A HIT-AND-RUN RAID CONDUCTED IN THE HAVANA HARBOR AREA IN NOVEMBER 1965.

SECRET

E 2
IMPDET
CL BY: 609499

14-00000

CIA
115000
SECRET

DISSEM BY:

PER
#

17. JUAN PEREZ FRANCO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JUAN EDUARDO
-225794
PEREZ FRANCO WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 28 JANUARY 1928. PEREZ
RECEIVED PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN LATE 1960 AND
WAS ACTIVE IN THE 82506 BRIGADE. AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH PEREZ
WAS TERMINATED IN JANUARY 1962.4
H110-701

18. FREDDY LUGO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE FREDDY LUGO WHO
WAS ARRESTED IN 1976 IN CONNECTION WITH THE CUBANABAIRLINER CRASH.Y

19, GERMAN LOZANO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH GERMAN RICARDO
LOZANO WHO WAS ARRESTED ALONG WITH FREDDY LUGO IN 1976.4

20. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY FERNANDO BUENO BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMA-
TION.Y
201355001

21. GENERAL JUAN NEPOMUCENO FOLCH PEREZ, AIR ADVISOR TO THE EXECUTIVE BERANCH. WAS BORN IN PUERTO PLATA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC,
ON 3 AUGUST 1926. FOLCH HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND MORE RECENTLY AS AIR FORCE CHIEF OF STAFF.

IN LATE MAY 1972 USDAO, SANTO DOMINGO, REPORTED THAT FORMER CHIEF
/2010/06/92
OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE, GENERAL MANUEL BENITEZ VALDEZ, HAD

SECRET
E 2
IMPDET
C87: C09५११
i

14-00000

CIA
115000

SECRET

:
DISSEM BY:

PER
#
VISITED THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN AN EFFORT TO SELL, TO THE
DOMINICANS, ARMAMENT AND SPARE PARTS FROM A U.S.-BASED FIRM WHICH
BENITEZ WAS REPRESENTING. BENITEZ HAD CONTACTED TWO DOMINICAN
GENERALS, ONE OF THEM BEING FOLCH. USDAO COMMENTED THAT FOLCH'S
ASSOCIATION WITH CUBAN EXILES AND ARMS SALESMEN HAD BEEN THE
SUBJECT OF PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE DURING 1972 AND THAT FOLCH WAS
ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED WITH MILITANT CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, SUCH AS "ALPHA
•	66." DURING 1962-1963.4

22. ACCORDING TO A USUALLY ROBELIABLE SOURCE, IN LATE DECEMBER
HD0701
1965 ONE VIRGILIO POU WAS IDENTIFIED AS A MEMBER OF A RIGHTIST GROUP
WHICH WAS ORGANIZED TO COUNTER THE SPREADING OF INFLUENCE BY FORMER "CONSTITUTIONALISTS" IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THE GROUP WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR PLACING PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE AT THE GRAVESITE OF LT.
COLONEL RAFAEL TOMAS FERNANDEZ DOMINGUEZ IN SANTIAGO, DOMINICAN "REPUBLIC, IN MID-DECEMBER 1965 IN AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO MURDER
201-775-139
COLONEL FRANCISCO CAAMANO DENO, WHO WAS ATTENDING A CEREMONY IN
HONOR OF FERNANDEZ. THE GROUP WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN ITS ATTEMPT TO
DETONATE THE EXPLOSIVE.Y

SECRET
E 2
IMPDET

