1104-10069-10132
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 22 July 1965

RI/ANALYZE
FUSA-3202

OFFICER'S
INITIALS | DATE | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show to whom it refers. Draw a line to connect comments to whom.)
1. FR 100 7/27 PAYELRAD, EDOUARD
2. volee
3. EE6/4 Na
4. FR/4/C84 - Enclosed is the report on V. A. NGUYEN.
5. W. Dacious - I gave you one on Wais D. If S. I don't know how to headed as "Liaison?"
6. cs/sl/o Oct 27 1650 - This is a request, so I will have Harry - ENGEL for the time.
7. "FOR OUR OP RI ONLY" Do not write below this line
8.
9.
10.
11.
12. RI/AN 11/5 201/136765
13. ABSTRACT N
14.
15.
16. RITY NAYO DATE 1 JUL 1965
RI/FI-1409 L

SECREY CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED

07483

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE FROM APERTURE CARD

14-00000

VIA ALF

TO: Chief of Station, Phnom Penh INFO: Chief, Fl
FROM: Chief of Station, Viet Nam
SUBJECT: Specific Information concerning Lam A

ACTION REQUIRED: None

In answer to request of Gregory O. SAMBAS, the following is a composite of information from [illegible] P. AHELY (TOFU) (LIMT 1) and VERALL N. ANDRAE (LIMT 11) concerning Lam A.

1. Description of subjects Between 35 and 40 years old, about 6 foot tall, rather bald, well spoken, very strong and vigorous, Mao kite taste, friendly & sociable, speaks quite good English. He is married and has one 9 or 10-year old daughter. He had a sister in Raw Kett who is a materialized American citizen. "Communist," always dresses in Western taste, has a fine radio, has an impressive library, reads continuously and paints very well.

2. Early during the war he was deported as a Jew to a German concentration camp (tattooed prisoner's identification number on right fore-arm-PX/A), there he spent several horrible years and survived only by luck. Since 1949 he has spent part of his time in Indonesia and was apparently in intelligence or related activities most of the time. [illegible] reports that the first WARM trap is placed 1950-52 cached in by an officer from France and led to several compromised operations and was shortly afterwards declared dangerous and caught by the French.

3. Subject took part on a civilize in the Atlantis Operation, A4, according to one report, was to with vast sums of money to make propaganda, buy off the opposition, etc., named (Lieu D.) and MARKEN (LAB). One of A's main accomplishments in Central Viet Nam among the few notable achievements in that area, particularly in respect to his contribution to the Vietnamese pacification progress which he coordinated throughout the course of Operation Atlas.

4. Subject is an old friend of Col. (Gen) Dang Duc Khue (Gel) a former chief of staff in the Viet Minh zone (Annam) from 1953 to 1954. Later assigned to National Security Division during which time he proposed to VILLIEM joint operations personnel resources and experience (similar to Banzai proposal, above) but VILLIEM refused, considered proposal preposterous nonsense.

5. March-April 1964 subject approached Station and USAID for military support for programs to support smallness of a people's militia (armed patrols) in the Hoa Huong area. Information and correspondence on this proposal will be part upon request.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE FROM APERTURE CARD

14-00000

SECRET

6. In February-March 1958, subject was sent by the French on a special mission to Poland and East Germany to attend a conference.

7. Subject claims that while working for SDECE he supervised an operation into Hanoi, the latter stated that he be removed from Saigon. Subject claimed that [SDECE] wanted to get rid of him for "political" reasons--approximately 15 December 1956.

8. (At present subject is [illegible] admitted to French High Commission) at Phnom Penh as of 11 December 1958. He frequently travels to Saigon, and once here last 17 days.

[signature]
Vienna, US
25 June 1965

Distribution:
Orig & 1a: Addressee
lc: Chief, FI
lc: Station Files

SECRET

201-136765

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

14-00000

SECRET

SEE ATTACHED GUIDE RELATING TO THIS FILE

Identification:

Lam A. (Nguyen). [illegible] (Indochinese studying in Brussels who's supposedly now [illegible]

Item B Edmond T. Guerriere

Item C Francois Nguyen

Item D Edmond A. Dufresne

Item E Gregory Sambas

SECRET

201-136765

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED
