14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL PLATENED AT LES HEADQUARTERS

HOUSE SPLET COLL OF ASSASSTEALERS STADEUS

FILE TITLE/NIPIELE/VOLIII: _KDMANGO Support (VOL.2)

50-6-32/2

INCLUSIVE PATIS: 2.July 1957-6. Aug. 1968

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LA/DDC

PTON: 3034

DELETIONS, CIF ANY:

DATE DATE

RECEIVED RETURNED

OVIESBY

(PPENT NAME)

SIGNATTIPLE OF

ELVILNING OFFICIAL

29 JUNE 28 DAN HARDWAY- Dan Hardway

27 JULY 28 DAN HARDWAY. Dan Hardway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY LE COPIED OR RON RES FILE.

KDMANGO
50-6-32/2
Support
2/2 July 197
Iden 50
RETIRED

DESENS

196
14-00000
FORM
2-66
2593

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

(7-13)

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled in)

TOTAL COPIES 16

PRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTEO

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

JISSEM

ACTION

INFO

#137 WHIT RID COPY
REP TO FILE NO
BRANCH
FILE RID REGRET TO
PRI/AN C1/C2, C1/DA

DESTROYSIG.

SECRET 0623007 AUG 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 6630
6 Αυς 68 IN 65508

DIRECTOR

LIFEAT
1. REQUEST PRIORITY HANDLING TO OBTAIN POA ON
IDENTITY FOR USE AS LIFEAT BASEHOUSE KEEPER. IDENTITY
TO REPLACE IIFEUD AND LIFEUD-15 WHO ARE RESIGNING
EFFECTIVE 31 AUGUST 68 AND MOVING TO GUADALAJARA..
2. POUCHING COMLETED PRO PART ONE. HQS WILL
NOTE THAT IDENTITY IS UNMARRIED SISTER OF LIFEUD-24.
3. STATION AND LNPURE TRACES NEGATIVE.

SECRET
BT

SECRET

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONTUNIT NOTIPISO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled in!
TOTAL CONES 16

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN DY

GROUPI
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

INDEX

VES NO

2
6
7
10

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

DESTROY BIG.

E-REF TO FILE NO

FILE RID RET TO

26

WH 8 INFO RID COPY
BRANCHO
PREV RI/AN, CI/1C 2,01/04

6 Αυς 68 IN 65503

ACTION

SECRET 0623007 AUG 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 6631

DIRECTOR

LIFEAT

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 6630 (N65508)

IDENTITY: EMMA (ZUECK) RUFFINI

DPOB: 22 SEPT 18 IN SIERRA MOJADA, COAHUILA

CIT: MEXICAN

ADDRESS: XOCHICALCO 329 APT 7, MEXICO 13, D.E

MARITAL STATUS: SINGLE

FATHER: FIDEL (ZUECK) S. (DECEASED)

MOTHER: VIERGINIA RUFFINI DE ZUECK (DECEASED)

OCCUPATION: PRESENTLY UNEMPLOYED. LAST POSITION WAS
SECRETARY AT OFFICE CIVIL REGISTRY IN
CHIHUAHUA, CHIHUAHUA FROM 1955 ΤΟ 1968..
RESIGNED POSITION TO MOVE MEXICO CITY.

SECRET

BT
SECRET

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
21
SECRET

HMMA 35074

LIFTED, IFEUD - 3. LIFEUD-24.

tva stali salary increases

oncmonthly salary, which

Anned Heporandums of

were forwarded to headquarters.

is is normal tathis Project daily operational meetings
art to
LISTEN A LIFEUD-24 in order to pick-up

seduse varrous operational aspects
face of activities

BASLHOUSES

7.
Provati

Anre: 1958 LIRISK explovees started extensive

ka around LIFEAT Annex 6. Because of

nd was up come and all of the LIFEAT lines

10. אותן work was completed on 21 June and

the seose was back in operation in early July.

LIRISK work in the area around LIFEAT Annex. 8 caused
The closure of this basehouse from 19 April until early May.

I: Pro 1968 the Statior made the decision to close down
LIFEAT A 3 and move the pasebousekeepers, LIFEUD-35 and 36, to
The reasons for this decisión were two-fold:

A) LIFECO 35 ada have four children and Annex 5 was too
small father, and 50 the annex needed extensive repairs which
the Bandit retused to have done because he was planning to sell
the t
A new baschos Annex 9, was located and Annex.
6 was creed on 20 June. Tie baschousekeepers are now in Annex
9 and tarhet coverage commenced in early July,
10. Paragraphs 7. 8 and 9 explain the reduced coverage
provided by LIFEAT: during the three month period under review.

SECURITY

PLANS

11. No known security incidents occurred during this period.

12 It presèatly appears that LIFELT-5, basehousekeever,
If
will w transferred by his company to the Guadalajara area.
this occurs, we will accent the resignation of LIFEUD-5 and -15
ardiome down Annex 3. In view of this Project Officers

prosentivar looking for re; lacements and Operational Approvals
while requested as soon as suitable candidates are located.

for Dilard (CURTIS

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
-PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ECRET
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP I
ERCA DES FROM stamatic
REPRODUCTION OF HIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE
ISSUED
SLOTTED

INDEX
VES NO

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
6
7
3
10

DISSEM BY

ALTION

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO

DESTROY SIG

Wit 8
SECRET 0115302 JUN 68 CITE LOGISTICS 6544

MÉXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

JBECHO

HEF MEXICO CITY 603.9 51)

REGRET SEARCH HDQS FILES FAILED DISCLOSE RENTAL LEASE OR
CONTRACT FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE.

SECRET

BT

File LIFEAT
support
SECRET
Perkins

14-00000
25 June 1903

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDP/APS

VIA: WH/LOG

SUBJECT: Project LIFEAT Request for Increase
in Transportation Vehicle Allowance (TVA)

1. It is requested that the TVA for Project LIFEAT be
increased from six to eight to cover the use of two addition-
al cars:

POV of Carol K. ZINSKEISTER (P), translator $300 per
annin

POV of LIFEUD/35, safehousekeeper $250 a
month.
2. Funds for the above POV allowances in lieu of
reimbursement by the mile are included in the project renewal.

W. J. Kaufran
Chief, Wil/1

14-00000

10
INFO

DISPATCH
Chief/WHD
Chief/Finance Division

CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXTING

XX NO INDELING REQUIRED

FROM
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico City
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDE RING

MICROFILM

LIFEAT/Forwarding of Amended NOCs

Action Required: For Your Information
1. Forwarded herewith are amended Memorandum of Oral
Commitments for several assets involved in the LIFEAT Project.
These MOCs reflect salary changes effective 1 July 1968 as
follows:
ASSET
HQ 201
INCREASE PER MONTH

LIFEUD-2
201-117970-
$ 25.60
LIFEUD-3
201-117971
20.80.
LIFEUD-6
201-117978-
See below

(Olga A. PARFINIK)
LIFEUD-24
201-119525
30,00
LIFEUD-32
201-749002
24.00
LIFEUD-35
201-740227
24.00
2
2. The salary for LIFEUD-6 (Olga A. PARFINIK) was changed
from an hourly rate to a flat monthly rate. The figure reached
was calculated from a six-month average of payments. The
actual increase amounted to slightly less than $10.00 per month.

Continued.....

Distribution:
②- Chief/WHD w/att h/w
2- Chief/Finance Division w/att h/w

Attachments:
As stated herewith -Cattachments detached and
filed baf varises Fores

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

ΗΜΜΑ 34916
50-6-32/2
ста
CLASSIFICATIO
SECRET

DATE

25 June 1968

SHOS FILE NUMBER
Pertinent 201s

14-00000
FORM
8-64
401

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET

HMMA - 34916

3. The increase per month section was added to this
dispatch because a review of the files indicated that several
of the previous VOCs had been submitted incorrectly.e.g., the
celery for LIFELD 2 shown in the previous NOC was actually thê
half-month salary.

Like & Warschauk

for/Willard C. CURTIS

CLASSIFICATION
53a USE PREVIOUS EDITHA
SECRET CONTINUED
PAGE NO
2

14-00000
LIFEAT SUPP

In May 1968 FEINGLASS processed LL special reels of LIFEAT material.
HMVA 31880, 13 June 68

(no indication of what was "special" about them)

14-00000
25 April 1968
MEMORANDUM FOR: DDP/MPS

VIA: TH/LOG

SUBJECT: Project LIFEAT - Request for Transporta-
tion Vehicle Allovance (TVA)

1. It is requested that a transportation vehicle
allowance under Project LIFEAT be authorized to cover the
use of 5 POVS;

one for LIFEUD/3 in the amount of $24 a month or
$288 per annum

one for LIFEUD/5 in the amount of $24 a month or
$288 per annum

one for LIFEUD/7 in the amount of $40 a month or
$480 per annum.

one for LIFEUD/8 in the amount of $40 a month or
$480 per annum

one for LIFEUD/24 in the amount of $40 a month or
$480 per annum

2. Funds for the above POV allowances in lieu of re-
imbursement by the mile are already provided in the project.

LIFEAT Copy W. J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1

14-00000
CONTING2HONOR
DISPATCH

SECRET

FORLIFEAT Support
BIT-8929
10 April 18

LICONET: To support a 340.00 nam to payment to
LTOOINT-9 for the we of his POT.

DerVARS:
To support a 800.00 non to paysant to
Bruce H. FERMALD for os of his FOR.

LIDOUTROT: To support a 18.8 : sath poracat to
T-1 for the of his FOR.

LITHAR: Increase the LITRAR TVA from one to tνο
anthorisations, the second authorinatics to support
a 130.000th payment to LITRAD 3. The existing
stherisatice is occasiod by NT-373.

LIFEAT: Increase the LIFEAY TVA frescas to six
authorisations as follows:

L-AR
$24.00 monthly to LIFE-S
$24.00 seately to LI
$60.00 monthly to LIFEED-9
840.00 monthly to LIFE-
840.00 ream thly to LIFE-84

Although-4409, dated 18 Decanber 1988, etated
that a Traves not secansary for the LIFEED's, it
La requested that their ésternleatien bo rovioved
in the inget of Les commento ta cho Beptember 1968
Andit Report.

for/Villard C. CURTIS

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION :ur. Lally
50-6-331
SECRET

29 August 1967

SUBJECT : Amendment of CA for Antonio DOUBLETTE
(201-312729)

REFERENCE : Form 124 dated 22 November 1966

1. In accordance with Reference, Subject was granted
an QA on 22 November 1966 to permit the WII/7/Haiti Desk to
utilize Subject as a Creole translator of unclassifiod tapes,
Subject was recruited in December 1966 and has been per-
forming this function satisfactorily since that time.

2. It is now requested that Subject's OA be amended
to permit WH/7/Haiti Desk to utilize his services to trans-
late sensitive telephone tapes (LIFEAT) from the Spanish,
French and Creole languages into English. To date the
Hexico City Station has been providing Headquarters with
a translation of the Spanish and French portions of this
intelligence take, with Port-au-Prince Station assisting
with translation of the Creole portions. Recently, however,
the Port-au-Prince asset departed Haiti and, at present,
neither Station has the capability to translate the Creole
portions. Since it is believed that the Creole portion may
contain important operational information from a CI stand-
point, the Haiti Desk proposes to utilize Subject to fulfill
this gap. Subject will be polygraphed before he is given
this added task. Your expeditious attention to the above
request would be appreciated.

3. If you desire further information, please call
Ruth Lehman, Wii/7/Haiti, x5595.

CONCUR: Robert W. Berg
Chief, WH/7/Haitt

C/WH/1
DIST: 01
CI/oa; 1 EVMOW-1 1-C/WH/1; 1 - Chrono

14-00000

2
NX
S.L.Yaxley
MyLogic
6252
12 July 1967
SAKALA DISSEMINATION
SH
SECRET
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

NEXICO CITY

LIFEAT
SECRET
20日
RID COPY
INFO

ALU
DESTROY BIG.

FILE D

CITE DIRECTOR S154
12 22 27 2

UF: MEXICO CITY 2034 (IN-095CC)
1. DISPOSAL NV-2539 APPROVED、

2. PURCHASE OF RAMBLER APPROVED, AT A COST OF APPROXIMATELY
$4100.00. AV-2557 APPLIES.

3. COMPLY WITH BOOK DISPATCH 5373 RE DISPOSITION AND PURCHASE
OF VEHICLES.

END OF MESSAGE
/COMMENTS: Seferences attached
H/3&F
Fisher (a)

Distribution:
OL/SD/FS3/VS

WILLIAM V. 30
C/WHD
LEASING OINER
COCDRL
SECRET
