104-10164-10000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Bernard BARKER'S Contract

19 April 1974

1. Mr. Hudson of Finance Division called this date concerning his search for a copy of Bernard BARKER's signed contract with the Agency. He is unable to locate it. Mr. Hudson has talked with Jan in Contract Personnel Office and asked that I check with her re same.

2. I called Jan on x 9179 and asked that she request any information on Bernard BARKER available at Headquarters of in Archives either under his name or his pseudonym Spencer O. Tertiling. She is to make a request on r priority basis. Any available information should be provided to this office by 22 April 1974.

Chris Hopkins
WIL/COO/OS

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Limited Release from Secrecy Agreement--
Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio R. Martinez

19 April 1974
and and 
Pril idat
sur. dicitlow
407.1974

1. In preparing the letter of 18 April 1974 (copy attached) from the General Counsel to Daniel E. Schultz in response to Mr. Schultz's letter of 9 April, I obtained from Ms. Chris Hopkins, WH/COG (x-1325), copies of (1) a secrecy agreement (in Spanish) by Eugenio Rolando Martinez dated 3 April 1965, (2) an unexecuted contract (an executed copy cannot be located) between the U.S. Government and Mr. Spencer O. Terteling (Bernard L. Barker) and (3) a termination secrecy oath signed by Bernard L. Barker dated 12 August 1966. Copies of those documents are attached.

2. After discussing the matter with Mr. David Phillips, C/WH Division, I prepared the 18 April letter adding the second sentence of the first paragraph at the request of Mr. Joe Skura, AC/WH/CCG (x-1948). After completing the letter, I coordinated it on 15 April 1974 with Mr. Skura and agreed to send him a copy of the final.

3. On 18 April I met with Mr. Schults. I questioned him as to his intentions regarding the information he was seeking as, In the Agency's view, clearly there is no connection batween the Agency's association with Messrs. Darker and Martinen and the subject case. Mr. Schults-explained that he, as the lawyer repre- senting thom, foelo obligated to know what they did for the Agency In order that he can make the determination ne to whether it le golevant to the current trial--currently scheduled for 17 June. He mentioned that to daty both Masers. Barker and Martinos had bean completely unwilling to discuss any aspect of their dutlua with the Agency. They had been reluctant to oven acknowladge
SE IMPDET
CL BY 098473
SECRET

SECRE!

their association with the Agency. I explained the Agency's serious reservations concerning the possibility of compromise of agents and operations that are still in being. I explained that the Agency con- tinues to have associations with some of the individuals with whom Messrs. Barker and Martinez had contact during their Agency association. Mr. Schultz seemed to appreciate this problem. Thus, in order to attempt to protect those individuals, I explained that the Agency is currently not in a position to give Messrs. Barker and Martinez blanket authorization to identify individuals with whom they had contact during their Agency association. Mr. Schultz readily acknowledged those conditions.

4. I mentioned to Mr. Schultz that if, as a result of the discussions that are now being authorized, Mr. Schultz believes that certain individuals need to be identified he can make such a narrow request to the Agency at that time. I made no guarantee that we would approve such a request, only that we would consider it in view of (1) the rationale that Mr. Schultz would offer as to his nende, (2) the possibility of publication, (3) the damage to current oporations, and (4) the precedent in terms of weakening the confi- dance of current and potential Agency relationships.

Elvin Nistel
J. EDWIN DIETEL
Assistant Coneral Counsel

eet 10
OLC
D/Security
AC/WH/COO

SECRET

IRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

18 April 1974

Daniel E. Schultz, Esq.
Schultz & Overby
1990 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

Dear Mr. Schultz:

Re: Defendants Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio R. Martinez, in the case of United States v. Ehrlichman, et al., Criminal No. 74-116, J.S. District Court for the District of Columbia

In response to your letter to me of 9 April, this letter will serve to authorize Messrs. Barker and Martinez, pursuant to their security agreements with this Agency, to discuss with you their employment with this Agency. This authorization does not include, however, the identification of individuals with which Messrs. Barker and Martinez had association or contact in conjunction with their duties for this Agency.

You recognize that during those conversations some infor- mation may be revealed that is classified. As a result, it is herein agreed that you will not reveal any inforination concerning the employ- ment by this Agency of either Mr. Barker or Mr. Martinez without the prior written approval of the Central Intelligence Agency. I appreciate your cooperation in this matter and acknowledgment of the terms of this agreement.
Sincerely,

John 8. Warner
Oeneral Counsel

ACKNOWLEDOEL,
Daniel E. Behults

ees The Honorable Lann Jaworski

SECRET
18 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Request from OGC for Signed Copy of Bernard
BARKER'S Contract

1. On 18 April 1974 Mr. Dietel of OGC asked if I had been able to Iscate a signed copy of Bernard Barker's contract which we were unable to locate a few days ago. The answer was no. I took advantage of Pete Palmer's presence at Hqs. on TDY to ascertain whether a signed copy of BARKER's contract be could possibly/at Station WH/Miami. Pete said with certainty there was no signed copy at Station WH/Miami since much of the material at the Station had been destroyed. Also, since BARKER was terminated in mid-1966, the Station file should have been transferred to Hqs. back then.

2. I passed the foregoing informaton to Mr. Dietal who simply asked that I double check with WH/Contracts and the Contract Personnel Division for same which I promised to do and advise.

Chris Hopkine
WHD Task Force
Watergate

SECRET

15 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT:
Information in re Watergate Passed to Mr. Dietl of OLC

1. On 15 April 1974 I gave to Mr. Dietl of OLC the following documents which he requested:
Copy of AMSNAP-3's Secrecy Agreement dated 3 April 1965, which I translated for him verbally oat the desk.

b. Copy of Termination Secrecy Oathlby Bernard Barker dated 12 August 1966. Also a Genral Release signed by Barker 12 August 1966.

Chris Hopkins
BO/DCD/HA

UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
USE GHLY
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
SUBJECT: Optional) Bernard Busher Helms Statement
FROM: DefunD
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DDO
Dr Scoa Breckenridge
IG
EXTENSION
NO.
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
DATE
11 March 1974
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
We went franagh Busker
matertae provided
7th floor
Cannot find any tate-
mente Which could
con avably perve as
a pourer for m..
Helina Hestimony in
question.
El copy of this is also
Cour'ded to the
on Thin Care and
being funt to
Scoal Brachensedge,
हर्ष

FORM 610
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
LEERIAL
UNCLASSIFIED
11 March 1974

SUBJECT: Bernard Barker

1. POA granted 16 April 1959. Terminated amicably. 31 July 1966. Review of Barker's file does not reveal that he had any association with gambling interests. Mr. Helms might have confused Barker with Frank Sturgis who allegedly had Mafia connections. Please note Mr. Sturgis was never associated in any manner with this Agency.

2. Miss Christine Hopkins has discussed Mr. Helms' testimony, which appeared in the "Washington Post" on 11 March 1974, with Mr. Fred Evans, Office of Security, Mr. Scott Breckenridge, Inspector General's Office, and Mr. Lyle Miller, Office of Legislative Counsel. Mr. Sturbitts received a call from Mr. Miller carly on 11 March 1974 and referred Mr. Miller to Miss Hopkins who subsequently talked to him.
SECRET

1407 Brecекинбе

Bernard Barker-
mer weed end Feb 73
test released-Kelis said Barker lofor
mid 60's because crimind connections"
details of Bankena tem
lece when he ternurile aviobe тобет
४
mee
Barber shaved lost mite soy he
mildly ineligulant re "cremind
Associations"

CASE OFFICER:
PROJECT
AGENT
NARRATIVE :
SCRIE T
CONTACT REPORT
Norris Z. GERVENOL
AMABDUCT
TIME:

DATE: '11 March 1971

PLACE:

FUNDS PASSED: Nope RECPT RCVD:

: AMSNAP-3

1. AMSNAP-3 reported on 11 March 1971 that the charges, of sale of narcotics levied on Jorge ALONSO, the son of Guillermo ALONSO Pujol (AMECRU-1), were_dropped (no exact date given). Jorge was arrested. 21 June along with forty others and charged with being a top figure in the heroin and cocaine distribution racket.

2. AMSNAP-3 stated that he had talked with a friend of his, Ray BARKER, on the morning of 11 March, BARKER told him that he had spoken to Attorney Miguel SUAREZ. SUAREZ is a law partner of Fernando FREIRE. FREIRE told SUAREZ that Jorge ALONSO had been released because all charges stemming from the 21 June arrest were dropped by, the authorities. Therefore, there will be no trial.

3. CO Comment: It is a sad day when justices can be bought by the likes of ALONSO. The little man loses again because if he were charged with an offense 1/10th the magnitude of Jorge ALONSO's, he would be behind bars for a long time, and to make it worse, Jonge ALONSO can, novo back ruining lives.

SECRE

10 April 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel
ATTENTION : Mr. Paul Wilson
SUBJECT : Bernard L. Barker

1. Reference is made to our discussions regarding the letter written to this Agency by Mrs. Edwin T. Moffett in regard to her son's marriage to Subject's daughter.

2. As discussed with you, Mrs. Moffett was tele- phonically contacted and was advised that the Agency could not give her any information regarding Subject's possible employment with the Agency. Mrs. Moffett understood this and did not attempt to argue the point. Mrs. Moffett also was advised that her feare regarding the possible kidnaping of her daughter-in-law were not based on any known insident.

3. Mrs. Moffett was also advised that she should contact her daughter-in-law and son in order to get more Information regarding the daughter-in-law's background. Mrs. Moffett said that she had only met the Caughter-in- law for a brief time and was not able to ach all the secessary questions.

SECRET

SECRET

4. Mrs. Moffett was satisfied with our call and there was no indication that she would pursue this further with any government agency or Congressman.

Steven L. Kuhn
Assistant Deputy Director of Security
for Personnel Security

SECRET

31 MAR 1900
In response to your letter of March 10, we wish to advise we are unable to provide you with any information concerning Ser employment of Mr. Bernard L. Barker.

With regard to your concern for the safety of your daughter- in-law, we are unaware of any cases of a former resident being kidnapped and returned to Cuba. Furthermore, since it is assumed
rather
warrant
Mrs. Moffett is a U. S. citizen, such a possibility seem appears
Tee remote to fotify the apprehension expressed by her family.,

24 MAR 1970
Narayan Ganity

PERSONNEL DEFT.
C.I.A.
WASHINGTON.D.C.

I CONTACTED THE FBI AND THEY SAID I SHOULD WRITE YOU FOR THIS INFORMATION.

HAS BERNARD L. BARKER OF HAVANA, CUBA, CHICAGO AND MIAMI, FLORIDA 5229 N.M4th St.) EVER BEEN IN THE ENFLOY OF THE C.I.A IN THE ABOVE PLACES?

OUR SON MARRIED HIS DAUGHTER (MARIAELENA) IN CALIFORNIA AND WE KNOW NOTHING OF BACKGROUND....ONLY WHAT SHE TOLD US.

IF YOU CAN CONFIRMANY OF THE ABOVE OR GIVE US ANY INFORMATION ON HER FAMILY, I WOULD AFPRECIATE IT. MARIAELENA SAID SHE CAME TO THIS COUNTRY AT AGE 13 TEN YEARS AGO.

IS SHE IN ANY DANGER OF BEING KIDNAPFED BACK TO CUBA AS SHE AND HER FAMILY BELIEVE COULD HAPPEN?

SINCE SHE SAID HER FATHER HAD BEEN WITH THE C.I.A, I FELT THIS WAS THE FIRST PLACE TO START TO FIND OUT ABCUT HER.
THANK YOU FOR ANYTHING YOU CAN DO FOR ME.
MARCH 10,1970
SINCERELY YOURS,

MRS EDWIN T. MOFFETT
2931 CANTER STRELT
BETHLEHEM, PA.10017

P.B. I'M CONCERNED OVER MARIAELEN'S LARGE COLLECTION OF PRICELEGG JEWELD. SHE TOLD UA THEY WERE BHUGGLED ANTO THE U.B.A. OF (OUT OF OUBA) WHICH ONLY REACHED HARE BECAUGH THE BALANCE WARE BTOLAN.. (PRON THEM)

I UNDERSTAND THIS WILL BE GORILATELY CONFIDENTIAL, AMI CORRECT?

NOI
BARKER - HERRERA - Bimenez - Collazo

SRY
11/5967
Ref

FORM G325 A 111-1-667

BIOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION
FAMILY NAME)
Barker
ALL OTHER NAMES USED
none
SPOUSE (IF NONE, SO STATE)
(FIRST NAME)
Elena
Clara
NOI
FAMILY NAME
(MIDDLE NAME)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIC
Immigration and Naturalization Service
BIRTHDATE MO-DAY-YR NATIONALITY
FEMALE 8-12-1917
CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH
1570067 Havana, Cuba
FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAMEA
MALE
UH
Cuban
(FOR
APPROVED
BUDGET BUREAU NO. 43-1436
ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.
ANY)
412 418081
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
(IF
262-68-6012
FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE

Yes Barker 85 Bernard 13-17-17-Havan.Cuba 17-6-45 Hav.Cuba
FORMER SPOUSES NONE. SO STATE) 201-2516897 (husband)
FAMILY NAME (FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
FIRST NAME DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE
Horrera Alberto march 1935, No. 1936 or 37, Cuba.
FATHER
Jimenez Amado
MOTHER (MAIDEN NAME
America
FIRST NAME DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH (IF KNOWN) CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE
Cuba deceased
-2-24-1895, Hav.Cuba Augusta, Ga.U.8.A.
Collazo
RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.
STREET AND NUMBER CITY PROVINCE OR STATE COUNTRY FROM MONTH YEAR TO: MONTH YEAR
2552 WiSummerdale, Chicago, Illinois 15 Oct. 1966 PRESENT TIME
4400 NW 5 st. Miami Florida
.
CHI
.S.A. נט 1932 30 8ept,1966
