104-10163-10065 - 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

"Former Contacte Vivana Stakon"

able personal courage, good security and common sense. In my mind be
is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real loss to
the Agency if we lose sight or contact with Adolfo. I have met few men
more dedicated and more loyal.

271704
05
5. Ramon GUIATEGUI Lezara. AMFAN-3. Recruited by PAN-2 and so
close to each other that we referred to them as the "Gold Just Twins."
Ramon was in the shipping business in Havana and eventually had to
leave. He lost his home, cars, furnishings, etc. His aim is now
planning to send nim to Nicaragua, and I have recommended him to the
Nicaragua desk (Mr. Rental). He has all the qualities ascribed to
Adolfo SAN FELAYO (see above) except that he has never been an American
citizen. He speaks excellent English. He is dedicated, courageous and
most anxious to maintain contact with the Agency. It will be our loss
if this is not done.

251089
6. Bernard I. Barker. AMCLATTER-L. Wife: Clara. Barker is a
Cuban-Azerican. Ex-Captain in the U.S.A.P. See PRG and 201 for full
bio data. I recruited Barker in 1959, and he served faithfully until
we had to exfiltrate him sometime in 1960. He recruited a number of
valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTER-5, which see) and
had an amasing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and con-
facts in all walks of life. He vas a boxing manager and know intimately
all Cuban personalities engaged in the sporting industry. He had a puppy-
dog loyalty to his case officers and to the Agency. His biggest weakness
was his lack of discretion. He was such a loyal American (actually if
not technically) that he would fight at the drop of a hat if anyone cast
aspersions on the United States or its leaders. In the atmosphere of
Castro's Cuba I might say that that was quite often. We are to the
process of helping him recover his lost American citizenship. When the
Station reopens I would certainly recommend that we continue to maintain
contact with Barker. If nothing eled he would make a wonderful leg-man
for the Chief of Station. His wife is an attractive Cuban gal who is bi-
lingual and an belligerently inertion as he is. Barker, by looks and
by language, could pass either as an American or a man - a gooduin
asset if he could be taught to submerge his americana.

05
ذلة
7. Manolo VEGA Abril. I ret Manolo through Jorge US POL
(now a prisoner in Cuba as a result of the 17th of April invasion).
Manolo is working for us now in Miami, and I ore bia
date on him. Nanolo's family owned, along with Repurite Steel, the
steel plant in Havana which was nationalized by the Castro regime (Cia.
Antillas de Acero, 3.A.). Manolo as a brother, besin d' would
also be worth cultivating. Through his business and fally corrections
Manolo knew a great many people of onerational interact. One of bl
friends was David GALVADOR, although Manolo did not ware SALVADOR
political thinking (extreme left and anti-American),
objective a reporter as I have ever encountered asong la

SECRET

ale w

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

3/80
