## SECRET

[CIA file number]

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

[blank]

FILE NO. [illegible]

MEXICO CITY

PERSON UHN NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

324 SECRET

WH8  [checkbox] RID COPY

PERSON UNST NOTIFIED

FILE VR, CT, CI/OPS, FI, SRS, CIICL, CI/OA

SECRET 071903Z

DIR CITE MEXI 5837

RFDCOAT LCIMPROVE LICANNY-1

REF A HMMW 12821 AUG 64 filed 201-287137

B MEXI 5372 NOV 65

(099630)*

729099

1. DURING ROUTINE CONTACTS WITH PBSWING OFFICER DURING JAN

SUBJ ADVISED HE IN CONTACT PAVEL YATSKOV (201-120123) AND VALENTIN

LOGINOV (201-285412), BOTH SUSPECT KGB. SOVS ASKED HIM PREPARE

TRAVEL INFO ON TRAINS AND SHIPS BETWEEN MEXICO, NEW YORK AND

EUROPE, LOGINOV APPEARS FRIENDLY AND TOLD SUEJ HE HOPES THEY

WL-BE- FRIENDS.

2. PBSWING OFFICER TURNED SUBJECT OVER TO STATION OFFICER TO WHOM

AGREED ACT-AS ACCESS AGENT LOGINOV REQUEST HOS REPROCESS

HIS POA.

SECRET * REF., LAURICLE

CFN 5837-1 HMMW-12821 65 5372 65 PBSWING PAVEL YTASKOV 20-122123

VALENTIN LOGINOV 201-285412 KGB SOVS NEW YORK EUROPE LOGINOV

PBSWING LOGINOV HOS POA

sr

SECRET

501285412

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

NO.

DISPATCH

Chief, SRD

Chief, NID

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT REDWOOD

ACTOR EEQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION

G ACTION

Unidentified Visitor to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

PECIL PAIN ACTION
BARRIO PUUR INEERING
NO NENG CO
OMY CULFND DES
CAN FUDGE ENDOLING
MICROFLB

XX

XX

1. LICALLA and LILYRIC reported an unidentified visitor to the Soviet Embassy
in Mexico City between 29 November and 3 December 1965, The visitor appears
to be a Soviet; however, LIFIRE has not reported any inaccounted for Soviet
to have visited Mexico during this period, nor was the presence of a Soviet
visitor reported to the Station by any other source. The has not been seen
since 3 Decesber 1265.
2. According to LICALLA, the visitor was principally in contact with the
cook, Anatoliy Aleksandrovich AMUKHIN (201-295944), administrative assistant
Stanislav Sergeyevich SILNIKON (201-271103), guard Nikolay Ivanovich CAMAROW,
code clerk Aleksandr Petrovich PAVLOV (201-761265), Third Secretary and known
KGB officer Vladimir Ivanovich SHFAKEVICH (201-343894), First Secretary wid
known KGB officer Aleksandr Vladimirovich PHINHODKO (201-202379) and Press
Attache and known KGB officer Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV (201-132139):
:
3. According to LILYRIC, the visitor was seen leaving the Soviet Embassy
with MINIIN, and later with Third Secretary and suspect KGB officer
Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINΟΥ (201-285412) on 30 November 1965. On 1 December
he was seen leaving with MUKHIN and his wife, Commercial Counselor Georgiy
Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602) and chauffeur Anatoliy Pavlovich PRASTICHIKIN
(201-735052) in the car normally driven by Pravda correspondent Vladimir
Agafonovich DOLCOV (201-7630.35), On 2 December he was seen leaving with
MUKHIN and his wife, ZAKHARW, visitor Ferdinand Robertovich CINNO and

(continued)

Attachment
1. As Stated (HERENITH)

Distribution:
2- SRD w/att hu
1AHD w/o/att
2. File

Grey filed 50-8-10

CROSS REFERΩΝΟΣ ΤΟ
CREPETCH SYMACK AND NUMBER
DATE
HMMA-28001
CLASSE CATION
SECRET

5 January 1966

HOSPIRE M/MLER
201285412
200-4-64

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
19MA-23001

Attache and suspect KGB officer Vladislav Sergeyevid MUSIKIN (201-744341)
in MUSKIN's car. On 3 December he was seen leaving with MAHIN and
PRASILNIKIN,

4. Attached is a photograph of the visitor taken by LILYRIC.

5. Station Mexico would appreciate it if the attached photograph could be
circulated at headquarters for possible identification.

CAT
for/Willard C. CURTIS

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

DISPATCH

TO
Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief, SR via Chief, WH
REDWOOD
Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REFERENCE: HMMW-13985, 16 September 1965

Forwarded herewith is paragraph 9 (PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
AND PHOTOS) of summary traces in SPR format on Valentin
Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412) as promised to you in
the above reference.

BAG
BRUCE H. GINTALAS

ATTACHMENT:
Paragraph 9 as stated_above.

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. & 2-Chief of Station, Mexico City (w/att)

CROSS REFERENCE TO
:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OFFICE
HMMW 1-4087
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

SP/O/PA

ESCOPZ
DATE
GROUP 1
Excluded from "
declassification
OFFICER

207-255412
11 NOV 1965
28. October 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER
ORIGINATING
TYPIS
201-285412
vib
JOHN CARLSON
Exr.
6213
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME

1-RID (w/att)
1-SR/O/WH (wo/att)
WH/1 (wo/att)
OFFICE SYNO
DATE
SR/O/WH 28 Oct 65 Randall 28. Lyon

AN

OM 53
ART PARVIOUS EDITION

RELEASING
LICE S
DATE
OFFICERS SIGNATURE
60
/WII/1
(3)
DICDATPU

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

SECRET

9. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:

b. Height: 6' tall.

c. Build: strong build; ca. 185 lbs. in Havana.

d. Hair: blond wavy hair.

8. Shape of Face: concave forehead.

:

A-1:721 DPOB: 290 27
201-265412 PFT
WIFE:

S-010107
REF:-20557 14
& &
$010107

5010107

HF-HmiN-14087
SECRET

707-255412

## SECRET

[CIA file number]
۲۵

INFO
FROM
DISPATCH

SUBJECT
Chief, ku Division
Chief, SR Division
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SECRET

XXX

REDCOAT/LCIMPROVE - John STRATOS
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
PECIL PAIN ACTION
BARRIO PUUR INEERING
NO NENG CO
OMY CULFND DES
CAN FUDGE ENDOLING
MICROFLB

1. LICOZY/5 reported that on 12 October 1965 Subject visited
his place of business and said that he had been referred to LICOZY/S
by the Soviet Embassy. He said he was intorested in a one-way ticket
to the Soviet Union. Subject furnished the following information
to LICOZY/5 : Ho was born on 19 August 1942 in Michigan. He is
a student at U.C.L.A. and wanted to visit the USSR as a tourist.
Subject held U. S. passport number C 530394 issued 29 August 1962.
His permanent address was given as 19222 Pacific Coast liighway....
Malibu, California. His tourist card showed that he entered Mexico
by bus at Soncita, Sonora on 9 October 1965. Subject paid for 15
days in the Soviet Union but said that he planned to stay longer.
2. He ift Mexico via Air France flight 702 on 16 October
(confirmed by flight manifests). His plans call for him to depart
Paris for Moscow via Air France flight 724 on 17 October.
3. During a routine visit to the Consular Section of the Soviet
Embassy, Valentin S. LOGINOV thanked LICOZY/5 for "taking care"
of Subject but, in the presence of both PRIKHODKO and Consular
officer Vladimir S. KORMUSHKIN, LOGINOV admonished LICOZY/S for asking
for more biographic-data than he needed to fill out the necesзагу
papers. LICOZY/5 denied that he had asked for more information than
ho needed. (Subject apparently reported LicoZY/S's actions in
obtaining the above biographic data (or was debriefed by LOGINOV,
a suspect KGB officer).

4. It seems unusual for an American student to travel from the
U. S. to Mexico in order to travel to the Soviet Union since ho is
automatically increasing the cost of his travel by a considerable
amount. Since Subject crossed into Mexico on 9 October, only a
week before his departure for the USSR, it would appear that he
came to Mexico exclusively for this purpose. It thus appears that
the purpose of travelling via Mexico was to conceal this trip from
the U. S. authorities.

Local ODENVY not advisor for Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution: CH CS CUP FILED IN 506-11/9
ESR
CHOS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL ANL) NUMBEN
DATE
HMMA - 27467
GROUP 1
Ercticas from actsmatte
bangtacing and
Erlinssificaties
CLASSICATION-
SECRET
20 OCTOBER 1965
2015120301215712
FFN: P-2712

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

DISPATCH

INFO
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief, SR
Chief, WH
Chief of Station, Mexico City

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

REDWOOD - Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412)
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCE

XX

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAN MIDIGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

LIFIRE reported the arrival on 10 October 1965, via Sabena flight 555,
of Subject's wife, Aleksandra Dmitriyevna, and his son Dmitriy. Travelling
on the same flight were Boris Aleksandrovich KAZANTSEV (201-028975) and nis

LHMMA 27425

wife returning to Mexico from home leave,

DISTRIBUTION:
2-C/SR
1-C/WH

SR
for/Willard C. CURTIS

CS COPY
DATE
201-285412.
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-27420
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

14 October 1965
HOSERE SABER
201-235412

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

DISPATCH

TO
Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO
FROM
CLASSIFICATIW
SECRET

Chief, SR via Chief, ill

SUBJECT RED WOOD
Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201 285412)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REFERENCE: MEXI 4363, 7 August 1969.

XXX

PROCESSING ACTION
MAPKES FLA
CONG ON
ORTED DESA
CAR MODE ENOU
MICROFR

1. Forwarded herewith are summary traces in SPR format on
Valentin Sergeyevich LOCINOV, reflecting a digest of available
information in Headquarters files,

2. Paragraph 9 of the above attachment (PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
AND PHOTOS) will be forwarded to you at a later date under separate
dispatch as soon as the photos have been processed here at Headquarters.

3. Forwarded under separate cover is Paragraph 21 (IDENTITIES).

BNG
BRUCE H. GINTALAS

ATTACHMENTS: A. Summary traces in SPR format (h/w)
B.. Paragraph 21 (IDENTITIES) (u/s/c)

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. & 2-Chief of Station, Mexico City (w/att A, h/w; w/att B, u/s/c)

201-285912

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CS COPY
DATE
GROUP 1
HMMW 13935
Excluded from automat
damogracing and
declassification
23SEP 1965
16 September 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER
201 285412

OF FILE
SR/O/PA

OFFICE SEVE
1-FD(w/att A & B)
1-$R/O/WH (w/att. A & B)
1-
SR/O/WH
W/1

ABOLCS
PILER

ORIGINATING
PIST
vjb
JOHN CARLSON

COORDINATING
DATE
OFFNER'S NAME
20 Sits end you
7/21

RELEAS
LATE
C/WH/1
Ext
6213

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

A
ATTACHMENT GOES TO h13985
SUMMARY TRACES IN SPR FORMAT

SECRET
1. NAME: Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV

3
7
2. DPOB: 23 December 1927, Moscow
:
A NUMBER
:
PREPARED BY. BRUCE H. GINTALAS
DATE 8 September 1965
201 NUMBER 201 285412
18721
3. CITIZENSHIP AND PASSPORT DATA:

a. USSR citizen.

b. Passport DO16993, issued 24 August 1960.

c. Passport DO10264, issued 1965

6. CURRENT POSITION:
F
Third Secretary, Soviet Embassy, Mexico City.

7. RELATIVES:
C. Spouse: Aleksandra Dmitriyevna, born 20 August 1928, Moscow.

Worked in the Consular Office in Havana. Speaks
poor Spanish.
d. Children: Son Dmitriy Valentinovich, born 1959.

Daughter  Irina Valentinovna, born ca. 1952.

8. LANGUAGES:

Subject speaks fluent Spanish with a slight accent.

Subject spoke some English while he was in Havana.

1- RIS INPUT NO. T
cett. "i- Hmmu-13985 s
THOA ST
SECRET 207-285412

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

SECRET

11. CURRICULUM VITAE:

A February 1960 Diplomatic List from Argentina lists Subject as
a new Soviet Military Attache due to arrive in Buenos Aires in the near.
future. There is no indication that Subject ever filled that post.

From September 1960 to September 1963, Subject and family were
in Havana where Subject served as an Attache at the Soviet Embassy. In
December 1961, he accompanied the Soviet DYNAMO soccer team on a Latin
American tour as their escort and interpreter.
;

Subject arrived in Mexico City on 3 August 1965 to replace known
KGB officer Oleg Maksimovich NECHIPORENKO (201 305870), as a Third
Secretary.

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION:

Subject is listed as probable RIS, probably KGB.on the basis of

his activities while stationed in Havana and by virtue of his replacing
a known KGB officer in Mexico City. Per HMMA-28390, 3mai 66 Subject
considered Known KGB.
13. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:
:
While Subject accompanied the DYNAMO soccer team through, La Paz
in December 1961, he became acquainted with KISHIN-1 (Identity 1), a
KUBARK Bolivian security service penetration and later a low level
Bolivian university-cell CP penetration. It is not recorded upon whose
initiative the contacts were made. However, by KISHIN-1's admission
he had several informal and friendly meetings with Subject during which
Subject encouraged KISHIN-1 to accept a Cuban student grant. In fact he
specifically expressed an eagerness to be of any assistance in helping
KISHIN-1 to get to. Cuba. KISHIN-1 never went to Cuba, although he did

SECRET

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

SECRET

13. (CONTINUED)
correspond with Subject on the matter on at least one occasion. KISHIN-1
was terminated as an agent in July 1963 for security reasons and because
it was believed that he was a fabricator. No further developments in
his association with Subject were noted.

t

On the same trip through Latin America in December 1961, Subject
was observed to have in his possussion some $2,000 in United States
currency. After sending the soccer team back to Moscow from Quito,
Subject continued alone through Panama City, where he was seen in contact
with a Mexican citizen with whom he flew on to Mexico City. In Mexico
City Subject reported to known KGB officer Aleksey Ivanovich GARMASHOV
(201 227418) at the Soviet Embassy. From a sensitive source it was
learned that GARMASHOV had been instructed to look into the matter of
Subject's four-day delay in returning to Havana from Quito and that
Subject's superiors in Havana were concerned. It is not known what
relationship, if any, these circumstances have to each other.
1
In Havana carly in 1963, Subject befriended and apparently attempted
to cultivate VASLOUCHS 1, 2, and 3 (Identities 2, 3, and 4). The
association was discouraged by KUBARK because VASLOUCH-1 and 2 were
performing important functions in connection with Cuban FI activities and
contact with a possible RIS officer was not thought desireable.

In September 1962 at the invitation of Senhor Vazco Leitão de CUNHA,
Brazilian Ambassador to Cuba and newly appointed Ambassador to the Soviet
Union, VASLOUCH-3 traveled to Moscow and accepted a clerical position
at the Brazilian Embassy where she remained for approximately two years. A
year later, in September 1963, Subject returned PCS to Moscow. Between
December 1963 and February 1964, Subject made three attempts to see
VASLOUCH-3. According to VASLOUCH-3, the contacts were by telephone only

SECRET

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

SECRET

13. (CONTINUED)
and she did not meet with Subject personally while in Moscow.

15. CONTACTS:

In December 1961 in La Paz, Bolivia, Subject was in contact with
KISHIN-1. See paragraph 13 above and Identities.

Subject was in contact in Panama City and on a flight from Panama
City to Mexico City in December 1961 with Edmundo Fausto ZORRILLA
Martinez, a Mexican citizen who had been traveling around Latin America.
The nature of this contact has not been determined.

Subject befriended and apparently attempted to develop in Havana
VASLOUCHS 1, 2, and 3. See paragraph 13 above and Identities.

20. TRACES FOR LIAISON:

See first page following.

21. IDENTITIES:

See second page following..

SECRET

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

SECRET

Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV
7
DPOB: 23 December 1927, Moscow

{
I
PASSPORTS: DO16993, issued 24 Augúst 1960

D010264, issued 1965

POSITION: Third Secretary, Soviet Embassy, Mexico City.
٤٠٠
ふ
WIFE: Aleksandra Dmitriyèvna, born 20 August 1928, Moscow. Worked
in the Consular Office of the Soviet Embassy in, Havana.
Speaks poor Spanish.

SON: Dmitriy Valentinovich, born 1959.

DAUGHTER: Irina Valentinovna, born ca. 1952.

LANGUAGES: Subject speaks fluent Spanish and poor English.

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: He is 6 tall, weighs 185 lbs., has a strong
build, blond, wavy hair, and a concave forehead.

TRAVEL: In 1960 Subject was designated to the Soviet Embassy in
Argentina as a Military Attache, however, there is no
record that Subject ever filled that post.
Z

From, September 1960 to September 1963, Subject and family
were in Havana 'where Subject, served as an Attache at the
Soviet Embassy. In December 1961 he accompanied the
Soviet DYNAMO Soccer team on a Latin American tour as
their escort and interpreter.

SECRET

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

UNDER SEPARATE CONC
ATTACI MOMIC В ГО HMM 39SS

SECREЕГ
$
1

IDENTITIES *
3
1

IDENTITY ONE DELGADILLO Menache, Adalid, formerly a Captain on
the Bolivian Police Force. KUBARK agent from 1960
to 1963.

IDENTIFY TWO MATIKAINEN, Laurı Olavi, llonorary Finnish Counsel

IDENTITY THREE
IDENTITY FOUR
in Havana and KUBARK contact since 1962.

ΜΑΤΙΚΑΙΝΕΝ, Estrella, wife of IDENTITY TWO.

ΜΑΤΙΚΑΙΝΕΝ, Anneli, daughter of IDENTITIES TWO and
THREE.

7
}
र

SECRET

## SECRET

[CIA file number]

TO
INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, SR Division
-Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT
t
Chief of Station, Mexico City
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
6. REDWOOD Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412)
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
REFERENCE: MEXI 4363,6 August 1965
OSR
PROCESSING ACTION
XXXX
MARKEN FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

Subject's arrival in Mexico was reported in Reference. Attached are
copies of Subject's passport, obtained through LITEMPO, no. D-010264, Issued
24 June 1965. in. Moscow and valid for five years.

Attachment:
Copies of Passport
Distribution:
2 CSR, w/att., as stated, H/W
1 - CWH, w/o att.

Art
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CS COPY

-for
Willard C. CURTIS
GROUP 1
Excluded frors