14-00000
104-10181-10152
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASCAR

DISPATCH
S-F-C-R-E-T
TO: Chief, WE

FROM: Chief of Station, London

SUBJECT: KEYWAY/PBRUHEX/SMOTE 01 Cuban Identified and suspect Intelligence of

ACTION REQUIRED: See para FOUR

REFERENCES:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
OBLA-37,729

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
19-5

DATE: 28 December 1962

R633-MEDOX ONE
MARKED FOR NODOMG
NO INDĐÔNG KEO
INDĐÓNG CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALURED HQ DESK ONLY

1. Attached hereto are three copies of a SMOTH pro
pared list of identified and suspect intelligence officers,
compiled from records but not including information
derived from Special Intelligence sources.

2. Copies are being distributed to JAGUAR, SNABLE,
ASIO (Australian and JACONST.

3. As the list includes a considerable amount of in-
formation from KUBARI sources, SHOTH would be grateful if
Headquarters would consider giving clearance to distribute
copies of this study to "friendly Latin American and Western
European liaison services. They have further asked whether
it would be appropriate to pass a copy of this report to
ODENVY.

4. London Station would appreciate a brief cabled reply
to the request for further distribution of this information.

LAWRENCE L. NOLDY

Attachments: "Cuban Identified and suspect Intelligence Officers"
3 copies

Distributions:
4-Chief, WE w/atts

VEGA Perez

201-334753
CELA-37.729
28 Dec 62

8/920

-26-

VALDES VALDES, Ramon

1961:
Born oiroa 1911.
Suspect I.S.

Officer at G-2 Headquarters, Havana.
Signs orders to view prisoners at La
Cabana Prison.

Description: circa 5' 7" tall, heavy
build, weight: 190 lbs.
approx., short neck, scanty
grey hair.

VAZQUEZ MONTENEGRO, Ramon

Suspect I.S.

1960:
Member of Cuban Security and acted as
bodyguard to President DORTICOS.

Reportedly travels on subversive missions
in Latin America.

June 1962:
Member of G-2 in the Cuban Ministry for
Foreign Affairs.

VEGA PEREZ, Manuel
201-334253

Suspect I.O.

Diplomatic Attaché, Cuban Embassy, Mexico
since June 1962.

Responsible for new "Committee in Defence
of the Cuban Revolution".

Reported by defector to be former instructor
at C-2 training school.

Excerpt:
Attach to CELA-37,729
28 Dec 1762

VELAZ (VELOZ), Lt. Anibal
