14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
MESSAGE
DATE
TOTAL COPIES
14-00000
MESSAGE FORM
104-10178-10096
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MESSAGE FORM

Robert Bladergroen:new
X
7331
30 June 1967
CABLE SECRETARAŤ DISSEMINATION
INDEX
ROUTING AND/OR
TOTAL COFFR
SECRST
INITIALS
ROUTING AND/OR
INITIALS

DESTROY
BRANCH
FS
KO-ENDER
COMA
06C 2
☑ RID COPY

NL
FILE IN CE FILE 01-300985EC
DIFOR
RLI
V
clci, ADEP
TO
PILE RID
(class.Boutien)
SECRET
PRIORITY JAWAVE

30 15 49FZ
felitel
(reference sumbed
Ipiont
CITE DIRECTOR
5915

ΚΑΡΟΚ ΤYPIC
AXCLEVE-15
REF DIRECTOR 15805
1. REQUEST STATION TRACES ALBERT LARRAIN MAESTRE.
2. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ADVISES HE A FUGITIVE UNDER NARCOTICS
INDICTMENT AND ALLEGEDLY ADMITTED TO ANCLEVE-15 HIS INVOLVEMENT IN
BOMBINGS WITH ROSENTHAL. REQUEST STATION COMMENT ANCLEVE-15 EVER
RECEIVE SUCH ADMISSION FROM LARRAIN MAESTRE.
3. NO HQS TRACES.

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAN V. BROS
C/WHD
EARL J. WILLIAMSON
AC/WH/COG
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICE
SECRET
GROUP
Eastatel tras stamatie
s and
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO
3
2
1
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

14-00000
INDEX: O VES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILL BID
DESTROY
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
A
PR
REPROD
30
RET. TO BRANCH.
$10,
ACTION
LUH CO
ADVANCE COPY
JONTY
RID COPY
............
RS
INFO

FILE OR CSDO, C/WHG, C/CI, Cr. ?, ADDP
TIME

306702204
702284
SECRET 302022Z CITE JMWAVE 7953
PRIORITY DIRECTOR
ΚΑΡΟΚ ΤΥΡIC AMCLEVE/15
REFERENCE: A. DIRECTOR 15805
B. DIRECTOR 15915
:
1. ANSWERS KEYED TO QUESTIONS IN REF A AS FOLLOWS:
A. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOT VOLUNTEER SELF TO LOCAL
FBI. HE DID REPORT TO JMWAVE, WHICH IN TURN INFORMED FBI.
FBI THEN APPROACHED AMCLEVE/15 ON THEIR OWN DURING LATE
JULY 65 AND QUESTIONED HIM ABOUT JULY 65 DEAL.
B&C. JMWAVE INFORMED FBI ON 24 JULY 65 (SEE A
ABOVE)
D. SINCE AMCLEVE/15 FAILED TO REPORT OCT 66
TRANSACTION TO JIWAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67, FBI NOT NOTIFIED
UNTIL 15 JUNE 67. CAMCLEVE/15'S EXPLANATION FOR NOT.
REPORTING OCT 66 TRANSACTION WAS THAT HE "JUST FORGOT")
E. SEE PARA 2 BELOW.
F. SOURCES WERE LOCATED IN THE MIAMI AREA ONLY.
G. AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE DID NOT RECEIVE ANY MΟΝΕΥ
FOR OCT 66 TRANSACTION; ONLY MONEY AMCLEVE/15 EVER REPORTED

SECRET
•

14-00000
:
SECRET
PAGE 2 JAVE 7953 SECRET

RECEIVING WAS $500 FRON ROSENTHAL DURING JULY 65.
ROSENT HAL HAD INSISTED AMCLEVE/15 TAKE $500; TO AVOID ANY
ROSENTHAL SUSPICION OF ANGLEVE/15, LATTER WAS INSTRUCT ED
BY JMWAVE TO TAKE THE MONEY. AMCLEVE/15 WAS ALLOWED BY
STATION TO KEEP THE $580.
2. AMCLEVE/IS UNABLE TO RECALL ALL DETAILS OF JULY
65 DEAL. AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE ONLY PASSED TO DIEGO
(BORGES) TORRES (201-254161) 6 GRENADES WHICH AMCLEVE/15
OSTAINED FROM HERMINIO DIAZ) SANDALIO (201-203040).
BORGES IN TURN PASSED THEM TO ROSENTHAL. (BORGES AND
NORMAN ROTHMAN WERE ACTING AS AGENTS FOR ROSENTHAL).
FRANCISCO (RODRIGUEZ) TAMAYO (201-293114) MADE SILENCERS.
RODRIGUEZ AND AMCLEVE/15 JOINTLY DELIVERED THEM TO BORGES.
JMWAVE RECORDS DO NOT SHOW WHERE DIAZ OBTAINED THE GRENADES.
3. AS REPORTED IN REF AMCLEVE/15 IS CURRENTLY WORKING
WITH THE FBI AND FOLLOWING THEIR INSTRUCTIONS RE ROSENT HAL.
4. RE  REPORTER
*AVE TRADES LARKAIN.AMOLEVEVIL
ON 21460L STATING JÓ HOWEVER THAI
LAGAIN INFO IO FBI 2 IO JPWAVE MWAVE ON ON 2143 214
IT WAS ONE DOMINGO CECHEMENDIA C
ACALAME1201-297840542
PARA 4

SAID THATSKALRAIN WAS
-44-8, 2-
"AMCLEVE/15 REPORTED LARRAIN INFO TO FBI AND TO JMWAVE
ON 27 JUNE 67 STATING, HOWEVER THAT IT WAS ONE DOMINGO
E
(CHEMENDIA) ESCALANTE (201-297940) WHO HAD SAID THAT"
1

14-00000
PALE.
SECRET
0-83 3 JMWAVE 7953 SECRET
OF BOMBINGS AND ROTHMAN WAS THE BOSS.
5. WOULD APPEAR HQS JUSTICE QUERIES BASED ON FBI
REPORTING FROM MIAMI. WOULD IT BE OF ANY HELP IF WE GOT
TOGETHER WITH BUREAU HERE TO RESOLVE IN LOCO (INFO HAS)
ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS?
SECRET:
BT
*PORTION GARALED BEING SUCD

SECRET
NNNN
3

14-00000
TO
FROM
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief, WH
DE
Chief of Station, JMVAVE
TYPIC
CLASSIFICAT:0
SECRET
X
WH/COG
PROCESSING ACRO
MARKED FOR
RO INDEXING REQUIRED
ORLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
AMCLEVE/15 Contact with Frank "Lefty" ROSENTHAL
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Reference: JMWAVE-7900, 27 June 1967.
Transmitted under separate cover per reference
are copies of three JMWAVE memoranda to the FBI dated 24
July and 11 August 1965, and 15 June 1967. Subject:
Procurement of Arms and Munitions by American Group.

Gary L. FLUSTIKOFF

USC
Attachments
Memos (3)
Distribution:
- WH/COG

14-2-4
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND
UFCA-27903
CLASSIFICATION
BECRR
BESENSITIZED
File is
23008
JUN 3 0 1967
29 June 1967
KOS FREE
19-133-5-193/4
1

14-00000
וזוויט
MESSAGE FOME
ΟΑΤΕΙ
R.A. Ortman:jeb
WH/COG/NO
7451
29-June-1067-
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

TOTAL COPIES
SECRET RET

BOUTING AND/OR INITIALS
CONA
30
ML
C/LWH/COCGRID.COPY
BESTROT
MΑΝΟΙ
INDEX
BSTURN 10
NO INDEX

ALU AO FILE NO.
MFO
FILE
.
201-300985

ckl, ec.cz, c/WH6
classificatien
FILE FID
ADAP
fait
plea
(date and time led
Preference member
CITE DIRECTOR 15805
10
SECRET
JMWAVE
PRIORITYKAPOK TYPIC AMCLEVE/15
29 23 07 Z.
:
REF: JMWAVE 7900 (~ 00397)
1. FOLLOWING QUERIES FROM JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAVE EMERGED
FROM MEETINGS WITH OFFICE GENERAL COUNSEL. REQUEST REPLIES
:
:
SOONEST.
:
A. DID AMCLEVE/15 VOLUNTEER HIMSELF TO LNERGO OR DID
THEY APPROACH HIM INITIALLY. DATE FIRST ANCLEVE/15 CONTACT LNERGO.
B. WHO INFORMED LNERGO OF JULY 1965 DEAL. AMCLEVE/15
OR JMWAVE.
FLORIDA.
.
C. ON WHAT DATE WAS LNERGO INFORMED.
D. SAME INFO B AND C ABOVE FOR OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION.
E. WHAT WERE AMCLEVE/15'S SOURCES FOR ITEMS OR COMPONENTS.
F. WERK THOSE SOURCES WITHIN OR WITHOUT STATE OF
G. JUSTICE HAS INFO TO EFFECT THAT AMCLEVE/15 MADE
PROFIT ON OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION WHICH HE ATTEMPTED TURN IN
PELSASING OFFICER
-CONTINBED-
COORDINATING OFFICIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
مد وع
AUTHENTIC ΑΓΙΝΟ
OPPICSE
COPY NO
2
:
1

14-00000

DATE

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COFICH

MESSAGE FORM
UNIh
zh
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONF
SECRET

CONF
CONA
10

CONF
PER

