1104-10076-10371
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: UMWAVE
43 SECRET

ACTION: 5438

INFO: DOP, ODP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS,
FI, FI/D, FI/INTI, SR 7, WH 7, DD/I,
AD/CI 2, AD/NE, AD/RR, /NR/

ORET: 120028Z TDCS 12 DEC 2063 IN: 78723

DIP INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8923
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SW MSG 317 DTD 10 NOV RECD FROM TRANSLATION

30 NOV 63. INFORMANTS ARE AUDILIO(HERRERA), SURGIDERO DE BATABANO
RESIDENT AND FORMER WHOLESALE FRUIT VENDOR, AND EDILIO (GOMEZ)

RESIDENT OF FINCA ALGOBIN, BATABANO. BOTH WERE RECRUITED BY (FNU)
DE LA TORRE FULL IDEN NOT ESTABLISHED. FIELD COMMENTS ARE FROM

AMSUM-4 MONITORING OF CLT. RID. NO INDEX. FILED 12/282

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ 1. TRAVEL OF SOVIETS FROM BATABANO TO ISLA DE PINOS
2. CARGO TRAFFIC BETWEEN ISLA DE PINOS AND BATABANO

COMMENT:
NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
RED PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN
MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY WITHOUT
APPROVAL OF THE ACTION UNIT.

RELEASING OFFICER DATE DISTRIBUTED BASED ON ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE
PRIORITY

LIAISON
HANDLE VIA COMINT
CHANNELS FROM AUTOMATIC
DISTRIBUTION

14-00000
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY
REPORT NO. TDCS
SUBJECT
DATE DISTR
PRECEDENCE
DATE OF INFO. REFERENCES IN 78723
PLACE & DATE ACQ.
SOURCE
FIELD REPORT NO.
APPRAISAL THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. ON 6 NOVEMBER 1963, AT ABOUT 6:00 P.M., TWO TRUCKS, NOT OF
U.S. MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTING A TOTAL OF 24 MEN, WHO APPEARED TO
BE SOVIETS, ARRIVED IN BATABANO, HABANA PROVINCE. THE MEN WERE
WELL-GROOMED, WORE CLEAN CLOTHES AND WERE CARRYING SUITCASES AND
BUNDLES. AT MIDNIGHT THESE INDIVIDUALS BOARDED THE FERRY SAILING
FOR ISLA DE PINOS. (FIELD COMMENT: A USALLY RELIABLE SOURCE
REPORTED THAT THE ISLA DE TESORO, THE REGULAR FERRY TO ISLA DE
PINOS, DEPARTED FROM BATABANO FOR GERONA, ISLA DE PINOS, ON THE
NIGHT OF 6 NOVEMBER.)

2. ON 31 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 10:00 P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TRAILER
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
HANDLE VIA
COMINT
Channels
DATE/TIME ORIG. ACTIVITY INFO DISTR. SECDEF ARMY NAVY AIR USIA STATE AEC NSA LIC FBI DIA AMSINIC ONE DOC

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

14-00000
78723
SECRET
HANDLE VIA DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
TDCS
COMINT
Channels
TRUCKS HAULING BOXES ARRIVED AT THE PORT OF BATABANO PROM
ISLA DE PINOS.

3. ON 28 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 3:00 P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TEN-
WHEELED TRUCKS DRIVEN BY MILITIAMEN ARRIVED IN BATABANO AND WERE
SHIPPED ABOARD THE ISLA DE PINOS FERRY WHICH LEFT THE SLIP AT 4:00
P.M. THE TRUCKS HAD AN ENCLOSED METAL BODY WITH SMALL SIDE
WINDOWS AND EACH TRUCK PULLED A FOUR-WHEELED TRAILER (FIELD
COMMENT: A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT ON 28 OCTOBER
ZIL TRUCKS WERE ON BOARD THE ISLA DE TESORO FERRY WHICH SAILED
FOR GERONA.)

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMNAVKEYWEST.

END OF MESSAGE
HANDLE VIA COMINT
CHANNELS FROM AUTOMATIC
DISTRIBUTION

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
