JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 11/29/99
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10302-10024
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CIA-DI-FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : OCO/CIA
TO :
TITLE : DRAFT OF PAPER ON INTELLIGENCE RELATIONS WITH THE LBJ
WHITE HOUSE
DATE : 00/00/
PAGES : 30-31
SUBJECTS : LBJ WHITE HOUSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : JFK-M-02:F2 1998.09.22.16:16:07:576120: ARRB REQUEST.
CIA 9.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

CLASSIFIED
ATTACHMENT

ROUTING
TO: NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1
2
3
4
ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE
REMARKS:

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE

CONTROL NO.
COPY OF

Handle Via
COMINT
Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

TOP SECRET.

The Ant Ena Baging

For most employees of the Federal government, work
continues unchanged when a new man moves into the White House.
Employees of the Bureau of Reclamation, the Labor-Management Services
Administration, or the Commodity Exchange Authority

all go about their jobs in their accustomed ways, though changes of
Even
administration policy can ultimately have an effect. The pattern of
most intelligence work--collection and the production of finished intelligence
undisturbed.
for a considerable number of officials--remains Adirond But for
those who are turning out intelligence specifically for the President,
every thing is apt to change ar
povr
takes over, immediate
himosis, the appearance of a new Chief Executive signalo the fencest of
a whole new ballgame. How wide-ranging will the new President's
be
foreign countries and in international relations? will large
interest in Remix How much intelligence? will he want great
be
order
appetite mil he have for
requires
and frequent serving servings, or modest portions only as absolutely hooded?
merely
Will he want facts, or facts plus interpretation and analysis?

2

Separated or homogenized? Is he willing to read a regular intelligence
document, or does he prefer to be briefed?

In each of the previous administrations, OCI had established
a satisfactory channel directly to the President. However, the system
had never carried over from one incumbent to the next. Eisenhower did not
want the personal weekly briefing from the Director that Truman had
the General
received; kx/preferred to be briefed in the setting of weekly meetings
not
of the National Security Council. Kennedy did/like to use the NSC
with any regularity. Instead he found just what he wanted in the
Checklist
personal, daily intelligence EER devised for him five months after
he entered office.

The Checklist system worked so well with Kennedy that
OCI and the Director naturally hoped to continue it with Lyndon Johnson,
especially as it became apparent that Johnson, like his predecessor,
was not going to have regular NSC meetings. Eventually OCI succeeded,
This was
but after many months of frustration. It was only when contact

3

he had a firm hold of his administration and when certain
foreign situations forced themselves upon his attention that President
Johnson discovered the usefulness of a daily current intelligence
document,
President
For a few days after the assassination of kn Kennedy,
prxxxwallyx
R. J. Smith took the Checklist to Me McCone at East Building
at 8:30x a.m. The Director then held a staff meeting, after which R.J.
personally
Smith/took the Checklist to Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton in the White
The briefing of President Johnson from the Checklist, however,
House. Fornabout three weeks efter the abript change of administrations,
was done by McCone, who saw the President daily for about three weeks
MoComo metadeily with Floordons eidons Jonicony Jordisony pathy with the purpose of briefing
1
after the assassination.
bimfaumastho Chookdiot
Although OCI had provided more detail and background
information in than usual in its first intelligence books for President
on 24 November
within two days
there should be
Johnson, McCone/passed the word through DDI Cline that he would like to
see more but shorter items. (Two weeks later Dromley Smith was stili
and return to a normar checklist.
forging that of leave out the background datare McCone said the President
expected that topics appearing in the Checklist would be followed up
in later issues; therefore, OCI should make even negative reports.

4

Cline, presumably reflecting the Director's wishes, said that the
Checklist that day should cover military activity in South Vietnam,
the fighting in Laos, Soviet ICBM developments, and problems in the Berlin
air corridors and Venezuela.

Around the middle of December, uken members of the White
takecover ther
Housen start using the Checklist tried to piaconoke interligence
when McCone stopped seeing the President daily, the White House staffi
The President
They
tried to get him to read the Checklist, but were largely unsuccessful,

although McGeorge Bundy was able to do & some oral briefing, Checklist in
001's
hand. On 16 December, Gen. Clifton told Checklister Johm Heidemann, kak
"If we can't penetrate this 'sort, of wall today or tomorrow, we'll just
;
}
have to try something else." In this clpudy atmosphere, the sun came out
occasionally. On the 18th, Clifton said that the staff had finally managed
to get the President to read the "the books"--probably two or three issues.
i
At Christmastime, the President went to his Texas xxxk
ranch and shortly after Christmas had Chancellor Erhard as a visitor for
several days. The PICL was cabled to the ranch each day. The report

5

was limited to notes covering important developments and any information
that might be useful in the talks with Erhard. The President returned
to Washington on 5 January, and the next day Gen. Clifton, who had been
at the ranch, xxx told Heidemann that he had been able to get the
Checklist to the President with some regularity once Erhard had gone.

On 8 January, however, Clifton was having difficulties
not
again--the President had/read the intelligence document since leaving Texas.
little
Clifton thought there would be a ket-up in the press of business after
What was evidently happening was that the President found time for
that day's State of the Union speech. He
thế Checklist only when there wasn't a press of other business. Oliftom
asked Philip Kennedy for a special report, briefly treating important
and still-current
prokłenxx problems that were covered in the books the President
hadn't con
didit read. xin also talked at longth on the problem of the President
in fact, that
not getting his reading dons. Clifton thought, it would be good to try
the system of giving the President a summary of significant intelligence
twice a week.
Fi

}
6
OCI quickly put together an experimental President's
covering the period 4-9 January. This was taken by
Intelligence Review, /which Richard Lehman, te Assistant for Special
Projects, tukxto Gen. Clifton on 9 January. Clifton thought the
Review was the best solution to the problem of the President's intelligencex
wert
reading. He and Bundy agreed that the President would not accept a
daily intelligence briefing. The President had instructed Clifton that
the DCI was to see him whenever he wished but that otherwise the President
relied on Bundy and Clifton to stay on top of the intelligence. Because
with no warning
the President was likely to ask them/for the latest intelligence, the daily
word
Checklist had to continue. Clifton seemed receptive to OCT's preppeal to
six-on-eight
send the Checklist to foxmox additional pe Hodoo suggested that
the Checklist periodically include a special blue- or green-bordered page
containing an operational report. 2/

The next morning Gen. Clifton called Lehman to report that
and
ir
which he wanted continued.
the White House was very pleased with the Review,/It had been the tried on
the President at breakfast and it had "worked like a charm." 3/

}
FAXREKKERKY
7
Because the President was not reading the Checklist every day,
a
it sent
ite ountonte known topere
few more
Than
DCI McCone wanted hoogdodda.gr/high-level officials to know of
of-ten-sensitive
/contents beyond the small circle of readers in Kennedy's time--the
Secretaries of State and Defense, McGeorge Bundy at the White House, and
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Therefore he obtained permission in
additismant
February to extend the dissemination to four move top officials in the
plus
State Department, two more in Defense, one on the Joint Chiefs staff, and the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney-General. neral. 4/
Besides doing the Somi-weekly Review and the Pich, Oul was
Things went along on
es the basic of thκκκκκά 001's production of the new
writing memoranda
response to
white House staff and
2
raquests
From The.
Somi Weekly Reviewxand, the Presidentis occasional reading of the daily
(DCI Mclone, was
Check Vobylding and briefing
the President from time to
time by Me The Checklist writers still took the publication to
Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton each morning and received their comments
comments,
i
plus occasional playback from the President. When endadox unusually
in the PIOL
interesting items/caught his eye, Clifton would make a point of bringing
them to the President's attention. On 21 January, for example, he

1
8
reacted immedinsely to the "quotable Khrushchev" item and said he would
get right to the President with this. A few days later he instructed
OCI to keep the White House "up to the minute" on Cyprus developments.
"Hours will make the difference," he said.

Gen. Clifton told James Hanrahan on 28 Januarty that
he had talked with the President about the Presidents Intelligence
was
.
found
Review and Mr. Johnson had said it is just fine. He finds it a very
ed
valuable supplement to his occasional briefings from the DCI and he wants
it continued without change.
Iinsert *
from natt rege
Early in 1964, the President drew his aides Bill Moyers and
Jack Valenti into the intelligence picture. He wanted one of them present
when he read the Review at breakfast and he was reported occasionally as
discussing Checklist items with them. Although the MI PICL writers
continued to meet and talk with Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton, it began to

9
look as though Moyers and Velenti were xxdaddy taking the documents to
the President.
Insert
0.8
in
in Texas
plans to spend a weekend
On 25 March the President's xxxkixnxxfxxx
comment
S
txkxanek prompted Gen. Clifton to my that Mr. Johndon read his
wos
lup and
at the ranch; he is often up and shout by fik
intelligence while
(asking for it. But it is hard to catch him in Washington.
!
was
8:15 a.m.
The next day Clifton said that it was not necessary for the OCI representa-
a.m.; the
tives to meet him at 9:30 a.m. The book did not move upstairs that fast.
He asked that the meetings take place at 10 in the future.

DDI
James C. Graham, Acting AD/CI, took up with/Ray Cline
CL
the possibility of has inviting. Moyers to CIA headquarters for lunch
first
and a briefing. Cline wanted food to discuss the White House problem
asked Graham for
with McCone, but first Wanted a little memorandum on how things were going. 5
OCI then drew up a statement for Cline making the principal points that
meeting
Krute had no way of knowing whether we-were-wearing the President's
it was
it
needs because we had no feedback from him, in contrast to the situation
001's
under Kennedy. The reason for this was that our contacts at the White House

10
did
1st deal directly with the President on intelligence matters.
OCI wondered how it could establish close links to the President's
immediate staff. 6/
What was
Metorf's
position?
Died inayors came
louk fup
sed Borders

11
&
ermifwand
Things remained in an unpredictable state for the
only
next few months, with/occasional indications that OCI's presidential
Commented
publications had hit the mark. Clifton remarked in May that the Review
the said
was the best means of reaching the President, although the PICL registered
at times when Valenti was interested in an item. One day when the
A
PICL was heavy on the side of bad news, Clifton said, "It's no wonder the
-
President doesn't want to read this stuff-it annoys you." There were
days when the President read and initialed both the Review and the PICL.
Campaign
From mid-year on, thuock Mr. Johnson made frequent political trips around
the country. Clifton, who was usually with him, said he had more luck
getting the President to read his intelligence on the return flights than
on the way out, when Mr. Johnson was reviewing his speeches.

As the election neared, Secretary of State Rusk
expressed some concern to McCone about the security of the Checklist
and seemed to prefer that dissemination be limited to the President,
me Come passed the word down
Secretary of Defense McNamara and himself. The DDI was asked to follow up

12
}
and also conveyed his
He
on the matter.amt was informed thedokhex at the same time that Mccone's
Feeling
fers that the President should read the Checklist daily, ex or have it read to
him, and should not depend on the semi-weekly Review. 7/

ADICI R. J. Smith responded in a memorandum of 5 November 1964
the DC the ough the DDI
believed
Smith He felt that the Agency would have a graceful
readers
way of dropping some of the the Checklist xxxxxxx if the publication
were to undergo a transformation in which it would acquire a new name, a
new cover, and a new format. It would become President Johnson's publication,
specifically designed to meet his needs. To increase the wxxx chances
of its being read by the Chief Executive, it would be
RXRRX produced
and would be
to conform to the President's working habits by being delivered in
for late afternoon delivery so that it could be part of his evening reading
Smith noted that the Review, which Mr. Johnson "usually reads," was
timed
<produced dedux for his evening perusal. Smith also noted
the importance of finding a way to establish direct contact with the
And thus avoid
ing
President so that OCI could get feedback that it would-not-write in
a vacuum. 8/

chish this
The PDB Appears
13
Smith's proposal for a new publication was accepted
and was rapidly put into effect. The last Checklist was dated 30
1964
November, and the next day the first issue of the President's Daily Brief (PDB)
was delivered to the White House. In substance it resembled the PICL,
but it had a fresh appearance, and it wxx came out late in the afternoon
in the
,
instead of the early morning. Jack Valenti sent this first issue back
to McGeorge Bundy saying that the President read it, liked it, and wanted
it continued. Dissemination was cut back, so that the only persons
the
receiving the PDB outside the White House were/Secretary & and Under
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary, and
one Assistant Secretary, the Treasury Secretary, and the Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs and Gen. Carroll.
Weoksins hagum,
In place of the semi weekly Review, the Highlights of the
The semi-weekly Review was dropped, but by 16 December
a
001's
the DCI ordered that the summary xxnx of the Current Intelligence
with
Weekly Review be included in each Friday's PDB. The summary, titled
hang
Highlights of the Week, lasted only until 26 February 1965, Brombey buith

14
failed to arouse presidential interest.

In the ensuing weeks and months, OCI was naturally
watching for indications of the success or failure of the restyled
PDB writer
daily for the President. On 13 January,/Thomas Pattonxxxxxdon
Coiner
noted that Bromley Smith wrote "The President" in the upper right of
Copy No. 1. Patton asked whether Smith would like OCI to type this thpis on.
Nexsakxsikk No, said Smith, Putting it on in long-hand gave it a human
touch.
}
On 19 January, the format of the Brief was changed as a
result of discussions between McGeorge Bundy and Ray Cline. Bromley Smith
said he xx liked the new format and he thought the South Vietnam item
was "exactly right." The President was not interested in the names of
generals and ministers and didn't follow such details.
Further experiments in Romak followed a talk McCone had
but nothing
Come
page size
of them.
with the President, There was even a sample Brief that the President could
put in his pocket, though the thought of having sensitive material handled
this way made Bromley Smith groan.

15
In mid-February, Bromley Smith said that the
Vietnam Situation Report, which OCI had begun sending to the White House
daily at 8 a,m., was proving to be very useful; it was going up to the
President every morning.
9. It should not be imag med chin thr
5 PDS ariters to always transacted their business
with Bromley Smith in tranquillity.
(Occasionally there was a certain amount of commotion in
when the PDB'ere were there
around Bromley Smith's office/because of people coming and going to
!
different meetings in the White House. One day Smith closed his door,
explaining that XENYXmtyktx
problems
Bundy might be able to work this way with all the
Indians charging in all the time, but I Can't, espec-
ially since I was here till after 11 last night
waiting for the President to leave.
one day
Ακκκκβακα, Smith unburdened himself/about abeu
for himself and the Agency. One of them was the occasional flow of raw
clandestine information directly to the President, who "eats up informa-
Smith, recognized the whed to got
かん
important netellige
And yet time-was-of-the-essence Preside President
nesecligence ton
tion" and has a "very short reaction fuse.
possible,
Smith felt there-shouid be a
flow should be controlled by/s
"7
timely
"city editor" somewhere who could make a/package of all the many types of
as
to PDBer Joseph O. Matthews
information, including the operational. At another time, he reiterated/how
short the reaction times had become at the White House. He also

16
The Impact of Santo Domingo
On 24 April 1965 events took place that resulted in
an improvement in the standing of OCI publications in the White House.

On that day an uprising a began against the provisional government of the
Dominican Republic. The US fear that Communists might seize control of the
country led to the prompt dispatch of Marines to Santo Domingo. President,
ixxboubonqodir
--28 April--
By coincidence, that the day they landed/was also the day
Johnvon-wanted, asbeady flow of intelligence
that Admiral William Raborn was sworn in as DCI, succeeding John McCone.
Dominican
President Hohnson dant could hardly get enough intelligence on the Rinax
situation, and Admiral Raborn was determined to provide the best seriice
the establishment of
possible. The day after he took office, the Admiral ordered/a CIA task force
on the Dominican Republic under E. Drexel Godfrey, chief of OCI's Western Area.

As directed, it provided "complete and around-the-clock CIA intelligence support
Its first task each day was to brief Raborn to
him
.".
to the White House," / I put mixin readiness to deal with tom calls from the
White House.out Periodically throughout the day and night it issued
round-up
/situation reports, and when necessary, spot reports of particular developments.

All these reports were teletyped to the White House, and they were read by the
=
Mr. Johnson, who was described by Bromley Smith as a FREIREX President "who eats

17
up information." 001,way of course, continued to put out ito regulan
Dominican
publications. It was during the tan crisis that wordx was received that
the President's Daily Brief had taken firm root in the White House. Box
on 21 May that
Bill Moyers said/the President read it "avidly." 9/
Chief
The increased tempo of intelligence service to the in
route
HKEX Executive prompted further consideration of the proper a to him.
Andshusom
the No 1 retipiont De
lund ODI Ray Clime
Cline-end DDCI Richard Helms agreed that
a "greased channel" through Hopponge. Bundy should be established for the PDB
and any other reports the DCI wants to be sure the President sees. 10/
on 20 May
AD/CI Jack Smith commented/that a "greased channel" already appeared to exist
for the PDB. 11/
the NSC Staff (Me feorge Bundy, Bromley Smith, and then
Meteorge Bundy, as the Presidents Assistant for National Secubity Affairs,
White House Situation Room)
The President
should be the place of entry for intelligence for Mr Johnson, although informa-
Helms and Cline said
copies could be sent to Moyers and Valenti. Tugcoot
har

18
hectic
The kaxkia atmosphere in the spring of 1965, with the
Dominican situation coming on top of growingt difficulties in Vietnam,
caused the men in the White House to ask mote of intelligence and to
tended to prednom sharper veactions in the White House to intelligence and to
react to it more sharply. Bromley Smith said the President has a "very short
first from official sources and not from the press
reaction fuse." He wants to hear/about major developments, xxx so rapid
was
dissemination is essential. also warned that OCI would soon be asked to report
Smith
on every coup and to cover all present and potential trouble spots with high
precision. He said that in the Run future, OCI's reports would not say that
the Valencia regime is shaky, but that "Valencia is going to be overthrown
by a coup on the umpteenth July by X in Toonerville." Since this would be asking
the impossible in most cases, Richard Lehman, OCI's Assistant for Special
Projects, went to see Bill Moyers. He explained that it was possible for OCI
Could
☑write 50 pages of intelligence warnings a day, thereby taking out insurance
against any possible contingency, but that the office did not believe that this
:
would really serve the President. Lehman said OCI tried to be highly selective
in warning of xixx coups and the like. Moyers expressed understanding of K

19
OCI's difficulties, and the fire died down. 12/
This episode had
6
an amusing sequel about eight months later when Bromley Smith pondered
the series of army coups in the republics of West Africa. He said he didn't
think the President wanted or needed to be informed in advance of every
threatened coup. "Otherwise," he said, "you could fill the book with that
sort of thing."
INSERT from page below
Insert
the system now seemed to be working satisfactorily. OCI
was fairly confident that the PDB was being read regularly by the President,?
writers on the
the/PDB team widexx
and reactions,
and/it received useful suggestions, and criticisms/, usually from Bromley Smith,
A
they
when it delivered the publication each day.
first paragraph of the
the
One day in June 1965 ско
Gone
Aead item in the PDB said "Accumulating information suggests that Hanoi is
bringing North Vietnam to a state of semi-mobilization,"
explained
The second paragraph
Daid that Hanoi's action was far short of classic mobilization for offensive
operations; texKE OCI XX considered the move defensive and was therefore
British expert
inclined tot discount the view of one Briton who thought a large-scale attack
and Gen. Clifton
would soon be made acress the 17th parallel. President Johnson/at the time

Juser om p. 19
Johnson
The system for supplying current intelligence to k
President/was now working better than previously.wedobbe
OCI-amafairly confident that the President was reading the BDR regularly
To be sure,
(<from the Presidential
**x*x*** OCI did not benefit from the steady playback/it
under
youally
had enjoyed from John Kennedy. It did not, in fact, /receive the direct
reactions of the men neyors and Volonti who were closest to Mr. Johnson
On the other hand, toxxxx OCI was fairly confident that the President
was reading the PDB regularly, and the writers on the PDB team received
useful Suggestions, criticisms, and reactions--usually from Bromley Smith--
when they delivered the publication each day.

20
were at the LBJ ranch. Late in the afternoon, the PDB received a phone call
from Bromley Smith, who said that Gen. Clifton had called from the ranch.
He had been shaken by the
and
Thy first sentence of the Vietnamese item had shaken Alifton, whe
)
Was concerned about the whole piece. The President was out on the lake at
and was not expected back for several hours. Clifton at first felt he should
m
summon the President to shore. Smith discussed the matter with the PDB writer,
Thomas Patton, and there was further conversation with Clifton, who decided
kkadxku simply to add the word "but" after the first sentence and continue with
Was
a
vivid
the x somewhat reassuring second sentence. The case illustrated again
100
of the potentiality of the PDB for causing excitement in the White House outlys
entourage.

Foreign developments often zł provoked alarmasbom
Comin spirited reactions from khookdar Bromley Smith, but it was not often that
nature of the
Comma he expressed surprise R at the kind of intelligence he was reading,
substance apart. One such occasion, however, came when the PDB ran an item
"
about dissension between Rumania and the Soviet Union. An intercept revealed

21
that Ceausescu and Maurer had complained to Shelepin that the USSR acts on
the international scene without consulting its allies, just as in Stalin's time.
The Rumantans cited the 1962 missile adventure in Cuba and Soviet positions
on disarmament. Shelepin agreed that more coordination was needed. Smith was
particularly interested in this item and remarked thatxxxxxxXfxxkxxkkzXbxxx
to PDB writer Archer C. Bush that it was "fantastic" that we could get this
kind of information.

Bromley Smith now and then modified or rewrote items when
he felt that they might confuse or unduly alarm the President. In December
1965, for example, President Johnson ordered a halt in the bombing of North
:
Vietnam in the hope of getting negotiations started. A PDB item reported
that Hanoi had proadcast a tough restatement of its position, making no reference
this would be
to the pause in air strikes. Smith, maxatriax afraid that thokasoukx
taken
İnkexxukax as a rebuff to the President's efforts, reworked the text to
avoid this interpretation since the
a fully
Kompasixxxkladdkexbroadcast did not constitute official government statement.

}
22
It was clear at various times that there was a
Quite clearly, the White House staff cringed at bad news
from Vietnam. When the PDB reported in April 1966 that "the political situation
averred
appears to be rapidly worsening" in South Vietnamy and REKREAK that Ky
might soon have to take drastic measures to restoro authority or make major
concessions to the Buddhists, Smith remarked that the article was pessimistic,
and that
Hexdat he had later information. It was, of course, one of the perild of the
PDB operation that the White House sometimes had der fresher reports from the
field. Smith handed John Heidemann cables reporting that Ky was going to
formulate a new constitution and that the State Department looked upon this
as
hopeful. Heidemann agreed that OCI had written in ignorance of this information,
but added that offhand he would not be optimistic.

A few days later Smith read that "There was no real improve-
ment in the situation today..." and said "You're going to break the President's
whole
When he finished the/dis -
heart; he thinks things are much better today."
heartening
S
keatrexinx report, he tossed the book in the air, whistled, and said, "We'll

23
have fun tonight. But that's no reason for not writing it as you see it."
a
Smith had cause for unhappiness again when the FDB had
to repert that/Pakistan officials felt that his country was seniomly,
temporarily drifting apart from the US and would probably establish closer
PDB writer
relationships with the Soviet Union. Smith told/Allen Valpey that this article
was a "shacker" and that Walt Rostow would be disturbed by it. (Rostow
had replaced McGeorge Bundy xx in April 1966.)
Although John McCone had not taken up a/suggestion
white. Ittrinse
Whitexxхи
in Kennedy's time-
that the President's daily give occasional coverage to CIA activities, X
Admiral Raborn as DCI did adopt this practice. Bromley Smith reacted
negatively to these reports, however, apparently believing that President Johnson
did not like them. He particularly objected in 1966 to a PDB Annex explaining
Entinastically
how CIA used a portable ultra-violet light device in Vietnam to detect
guerrillas who MEKK had recently handled weapons before mingling innocently
with innocent villagers.
in
He believed ther
rif
Smith did not want the Agency to.
the PDB. the President should be
CIA activitres, the 'Del should
"advertise
informed of some
Send hom
a
memorandum.

By this time Rd. Smith
And
Richard Lehman
with them and.
25 24
wal
the
wes
was
D/OCI
was
DDI, E. Drexel Gudfron
DD/OCl. Bromley Sneith mat
PDB writers
Late in July 1966 Bromley Smith said that he had some ideas
about the PDR and would like to get together with all the writers.) Ho mot with
th Dot leadershi
themond-the-001/in the Langley building on 3 August. He prefaced his
kongkky
remarks by sayidadexxx expressing his satisfaction with the way
He explained, however,
the President was being served; He had no criticisms. HEKENEKOххехниккух
:
anon
KowareKy that while the President "tolerates" нижнymous documents, he
is much more x responsive to a personalized document. He wondered whether the
Snow DCI.
Brief could be signed by Mr. Helms, Then the it would become a personal link
between the President and the Director. In regard to content, Smith said the
PDB did not have to alert the President to impending crises over which he would
have no control. Rather, Smith thought it the PDB could be most useful
rondering
by carrying items that give pithy judgments on situations with which the
President is or will be faced. HK Smith said these judgments would be accepted;
OCI did not have to support them with argumentation or evidence. Smith
emphasized that the Brief writers had to be fully up on US policies and should
adequately
read presidential speeches. He felt the President is kept/informed of

25
Vietnamese military developments by other means; the PDB should carry more
Vietnamese political and economic items. Smith urged that the Brief
have more coverage of
*kwwxxxxxxхихихтерикхх Europe and said that Panama was another subject
high on the priority list. 13/
:
OCI promptly set about adopting Smith's suggestions as to
Soon
content, and Smith commented that he noticed the change.
(whar about Helms srimarice?)

Back to Morning Delivery
:
alterastion
A major ohange in the PDB system occurred at the end
of February 1967. Seemingly all that was involved was that President Johnson
decided that he would rather get the Brief in the morning than in the evening.
time
However, this change in delivery/forced other changes. The President wanted
the Brief at 6:30 a.m., just before he began reading the newspapers. This meant
that OCI's closing time on the book was 5 a.m. Nonetheless, the PDB had to

26
be written in full knowledge of the what was in the morning press.
DYOUT
As/E. Drexel Godfreyx commented, the schedule #put "the highest premium
と
on making the publication up to the minute." 15/
Brict
Because the BOE now had to be delivered to the White House
Situation Room by 6 a.m., the PDB writers mx no longer had a member of
the President's staff up and available to receive the book and comment on it.
make
having
This meant that there was no point in/the writers waking the trip to the
White House. From this time on, the PDB was delivered by couriers. To make
up for the loss of the morning conversations with Bromley Smith, an OCI
staff member would visit him occasionally to check on how things were going,
and there was also communication by phone.

DEL
for the PDB
Dedule,
Shortly after the changeover to the new schedule,
commenting on the President's reaction,
Bromley Smith, xxixxjwlx@SZxkback
}
that "we are much more certain now that he's reading it."
said emphatically
He also made a
point he was to make several times subsequently, which was that he disapproved
off annexes to the Brief. He was afraid that if the Brief were burdened with
off
an Annex, the President would put it aside for later reading--and then not

27
Ckcellent idea the the
Smith though it
was
an
Bret
A
Shammarize the
A
conclusions of
"Important" hatimal estimates. 161
get back to it. In Booxtextaxxx Smith's view, the PDB should be of a
It would be
length which the President could whip through quickly. Hochenkkixxxdxxxlx
be better if annex-type reports were sent down separately.
Smith continued to admonish OCI writers now and then kyx
Кануканиххих about the words and phrases they employed in the PDB. He admitted
that the it was hard to know where to draw the line, but he cautioned that
Ixoslux the staff should be careful about did not like "hopping mad," nor,
As a rule of thumb, he said the writers should avoid seeming frivolous or light-
