14-00000

GSMusulin/ba
2268 

ROUTINE

3 SEPT 69	0930	1	1
							84055
CONTACTS LOS ANGELES

FROM 038 (HUSULIN)

CLOSED CASE 52,872 - HUGH C. MC DONALD/WORLD ASSOCIATES, INC.

REF: LANG 0223

RE MF JOE TEREK, TSD/ORD, HAS BEEN IN TOUCH WITH MR. MC DONALD
ON MATTERS OF INTEREST TO ORD.  HOWEVER, THIS INTEREST DOES NOT PRESENTLY
HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH MC EN DONALD’S TRIP ABROAD.  THERE IS NO
OBJECTION WHATEVER TO YOUR BRIEFING OR DEBRIEFING OF MC DONALD ON
POSSIBLE FP: POTENTIAL.  TEREK PLANS TO HE IN YOUR AREA AGAIN IF ABOUT
THERE WEEKS TO DISCUSS ORD MATTERS WITH MC DONALD AND HILL CONTINUE TO
MEET WITH HIM AND TO DISCUSS RELATED ACTIVITIES.  WE HAVE BEEN ASSURED
THAT MC DONALD’S RELATIONSHIP WITH ORD AND POSSIBLY OTHER CS COMPONENTS
WILL IN HD WAY CONFLICT WITH YOUR INTENDED USE OF MCDONALD, AS A SOURCE
C# FFI.  MC DONALD IS NEITHER A CONTRACTOR NOR A CONSULTANT FOR DES&T.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
							Aug 29 3:02 PM ‘69

SECRET 291840Z AUG 69 CITE CONTACTS/LOS ANGELES 0223

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

TO OSS

SUBJECT:	CASE 52872 (CLOSED)

I HAVE AN APPOINTMENT WITH HUGH MCDONALD FOR SEPTEMBER 4 TO
DISCUSS HIS TRAVEL ABROAD. HE INDICATED HE HAS BEEN DISCUSSING
HIS TRIP WITH “PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON”. I GOT THE IDEA THAT ISD/ORD
ARE THE “PEOPLE” AND THAT THEY MAY HAVE THOUGHTS ABOUT BRIEFING
HIM. IF SO I DO NOT WANT TO APPEAR NOT WITTING TO THE DEGREE OF
STUPIDITY. PLEASE DETERMINE 15 DO/ST ELEMENTS ARE PLANNING TO
TASK MCDONALD IN ANY VAY CONCERNING HIS TRIP FOR I WANT TO
DETERMINE IF HIS TRIP OFFERS ANY POTENTIAL FOR FEI. ALSO, PLEASE
DETERMINE IF RODONALD IS A DE/SAT CONSULTANT OR CONTRACTOR.

SECRET

JOE-TEREK.
X 2901
14-00000
3-5---F

DATE 20 August 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE

ATTENTION: Ad Operame

REFERENCE : a) DCS - R - 10 - 30
b) CASE 52872 - closed.
								28293

Re HUGH C. MC DONALD Security Division has

granted ad hoc clearence terasu “Ever” for Dealed Area lering.

Prvariable Estical Agwey Cheese pletei APRIL 1969

Current Fill Concich were completai, JAY 1969

bas as ojection to your use of Subject in asucrianca with the

ICT’s Homem dated 1951,

Cortinatite for Daied Area Briefing of Dubject, in accordacce
with DCS R-10 - 30, wist te cxampleted separately by the appropriate,

Reasquarters Division.

Virginia Thurne
VIRGINIA L. THORNE
Security Liaison Officer

MEMORANDUM

Verified: cak
FILE

DDSKT
Scaunty:
NO CONNECTION
NEVER HEARD
9/3/69 4408

SECURITY MESSAGE 7868

GROUP I
ELCIPOD FROM AUROMATEe
DOMAPARTHO AED DSCLASKFICATION

S-CR-R-T

14-00000*
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
(When Filled Inj
										FILE.
ATE 27 May 1962

MEMORANOD TO :	CELLZY, LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT : AD HOC CLEARANCE

REFERENCE : CASE 52872

Security Division has granted ad hoc clearance thru
SECHREP BUP EAC MUST BE COMPLATED BEFORE PAR APPROVAL CALLER CRAFEED
on the following:

HIGH C. AC DOZALD

Becurity checke will be completed.

CC: MUSULIN
Virginia Thurne
VIRGINIA L. THORNE
Security Liaison Officer

SECURITY MESSAGE 7260

GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOHNRADING AND DECLASSIFICAFICH

Viborne: grv

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-F-I-A-L
14-00000
World Associates Incorporated

GSMusulin/on
DCS/Operational Support Staff	2268
900 Key Bldg.

TSD
Col. West
Closed Case 52,872

15 May 1969
For your retention.

Attached per your request is
copy of current data concerning
World Associates, Ine, their
products and services.

REF: 00-A(8)-322/12039-69
14-00000.

(in FIL 4. A).
DATE 6 May 1969
MEMORANDUM TO : CELLI, LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE

: AD HOC CLEARANCE

: CASE 52872

Security Rivision has created endorm thru

CONFIDENTIAL TO BE RAISED TO SECRET AFTER THE TRI CHECK IS COMPLATED

on the Mlioving:

HATH C. MC DONALD 
C.52872

Security chacks will be completed.
TRI's will be completed at a later date.

CC: HUBULLE
Virginia Thurne
VIRGINIA L. THORNE
Security Letnison eficer

SECURITY HOSA 1065
SCOOP I
FACULDED PHON AURUMATIC

14-00000

World Associates, Inc., Hugh C. McDonald, President

Daniel J. Shine for CSMusulin/js
DCS/Operational Support Staff	2268
900 Key Building

TSD/MP6
Col. West
230 South Building

DCS Case 52872

5 May 1969
Financial Info Sent
to Central for filing

Attached is copy of 00-A(5)
322/12039-69 for your information.

Code
Case closed
on P/s.
14-00000

SECRET

COUNTRY:

SUBJECT: World Associates, Inc.
Hugh C. McDonald, President
406 Wilshire Boulevard
Suite 203
MLA 00-4(S) 322/12039-69

30 April 1969

DCS Case 52872
Santa Monica, Calif. 90401

1. Interviewed 23 Apr 69, Huch C. McDonald, a cleared DCS source,
informed that there appeared to be a misunderstanding in connection with
his visiting Washington. First, he does not plan on going to Washington
himself; a representative from the Chicago Office is going for the purpose
of meeting with the Financial Group Company. Next, McDonald said he has
not offered to demonstrate his Voice Ident System. Finally, he does not
plan a “world tour”. Rather, sometime this Fall he plans on visiting
bankers and government security people in various Latin American countries.
He will return to the US; then, later on, visit various European countries.
Again he will return to the US and then visit various Far Eastern countries.
His purpose in making these trips is to sell Hughes helicopters to foreign
police departments combined with possible sale of his check cashing security
system to banking institutions.

2. McDonald will inform DCS/LAFO of his travel plans when they are
firmed up.

3. McDonald is willing to go to Washington, D.C. himself on 8-9
May and meet with TSD/ORD people there to “discuss” his Voice Ident
System, but he is not prepared to do so unless TSD/ORD have some
specific problems which his system will help solve. He feels otherwise
it would be a waste of time.

JOEY TERE
4. The above discussed with DCS/OSS (Musulin) 29 Apr 69. It was
decided that since ORD (Carrick) has been in contact with McDonald
previously that Carrick discuss the possible meeting on the Voice
Ident System directly with McDonald.

5. McDonald was informed 29 April to expect a call from Carrick;
that DCS/LAFO would follow up later concerning his travels abroad.

- end -
SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

14-00000-

28 April - Tony Lohmane says that
Mc Donald will come to DC. if
ths agency has some real and
hout problems to divines.
He does not have the time to
Come to Washington for a genuat.
dicinesion on the sub sulyut

Cal. West has canineced one.
part of TSD and several peopl
are interested in sitting is burt
the interent is nor sufficient to
justify- bringing me donald to
Waelnigtho. Cal West approaches
his IxE people wold
that The Terek had acked.
therm soul Twice a
ags and he had
abrendy arranged a meeting.

4/34/6940 (Crea 213-393-3544.) Tached to Tong Abusad
him We wish this one out. Thick sich make bis
cun asan
(
arrangement to bring or not to buig Masonic
bring) Madoned to D.Co
To many milions apdel the spausage.

14-00000

Gastusulin/ba
2268 

SECRET

HOUTTIE
25 APR 69	1030	1	2
								83050
CONTACT LOS AKIELES

FROM OSS (DEUSULIH)

CASB 52,872 - HECH C. EC DONALD, WORLD ASSOCIATES INC.
								2077
: HAIN-83002 AND LANG-3017

WA-PUX HAS PASED ON INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM REPRESENTATIVE FROM OED, WED
MAY HAVE OVERSTRUZZO EC DONALD'S ENTHUSTAIN TO BE OF SERVICE TO HIS FORMKR
IAS NILIR / COMFOSETTS 20 DETRIMINE RASPORES 10 HIS
OFFER TO COME 10 MASNIEGAON OF 8 WAY AS IEDICATED IN SECOND REF. BELIWE
FIRST VR SHORED FAYE MENING OF MEDS OF EATIEF AND SCOPE TO WHICH EC DOGALD FOULD
AGREE TO DISCUSS OR DRIOUSTRATE ELS VOICE IDENT SYSTEM WITH AGENCY REPIGENKHAITVES,
MED ANS QUALIFIED 10 DISCUSS SUCH MATTERS FROM A SECURITY STANDPOTE
IXIERRAST OF HIS WORLD TRIP IS INFORDANT BUT NOT A PRESSIHO MATTER AT THIS TIME.
IF THERE IS SUFFICIENT OPERATIONAL INTEREST, WE CAN SERVE REQUIREMETS LATER
WHEN MORE THAOSMATION IS AVAILABLE REGARDING HIS SO CALLED WORLD TOUR IN THE FALL.
SHOULD MC DONALD BE DISPOSED TO COME TO WASHINGTON, D.C. WE WILL MAKE THE
ESCESSAET AFFAGEMENTS FOR THE APPOIFINMENT AND INTRODUCTION TO TSD/ORD REPS.
HIS FOINT OF CONTACT WOULD BE DCS/O88 (KUSULLE) WHOSE OFFICE TELEPHONE CAN BE
FURNISHED TO JEE DOWALD. WHEN WE LEARN HAURS OF THOSE WHO VISH TO ATTERED MEETING
WITH MC DONALD, US WILL BE GLAD TO FURTISH HANES BUT THE CONTACTING ARRANGEMENTS
AROVE MEPEDONED WILL REMAIN IFTACT. SHOULD MC DONALD INDICAER SIGES OF ANY

14-00000

2	2
								83050
IDERY SYSKEN AED/OR OTHER GADOES WHICH MAY BE OF INTEREST 10 CIA, MOULD
BECKY DISHEGARAKET. FOS/LOGISTIC SECURITY BEARCH, INFORGED HX E
TOP ENTER CLEARANCE OF BRAJJECT SINCE 1961.

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
							Apr 24 11 37 Ai '69

SECRET2416332 APR 65 CITE CONTACTS/LOS ANGELES 177
CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

TO OSS, MUSLLIN

SPEJ: CASE 52872

O MOCK C. NCDONALD, WORLD ASSOCIATES INC., JAFORES ME THAT SOMSONE
PROVIDED TSD/ORD WITH INCORRECT INFORMATION. HE DID NOT OFFER TO
DEMONSTRATE HIS VOICE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM, WHICH WE REGARDS AS A HIGHLY
SENSITIVE SYSTEM FROM A SECURITY STANDPOINT. HE ALSO DID NOT PLAN TO
BE IN WASHINGTON WITHIN THE NEXT THREE WEEKS. HIG. SO CALLED WORLD TOUR
WILL REGIN SOMETIME THIS FALL SITH A VISIT FIRST TO LATIN AMERICA, A
RETURN TO US. A TRIP TO EUROPE, RETURE US AND A FINAL TRIP TO FAR EAST
THE CHICAGO REPRESENTATIVE OF THE FIRM PLANS OR FEPRESENTING THE FIRS AT
ΑΝ 3 MAY MEETING WITH FINANCIAL GENERAL GROUP CO. IN WASHINGTOR.
MCDONALD AGREEABLE TO GOING HIMSELF AND TO MEETING WITH AGESOY PEOPLE
IF YOU WILL PROVIDE US WITH NAMES, TELEPHONE NUMEERS, ETC. ADVISE

SECRET

9/83/69
FARGO
XT
Scurity Logistics
wet our inlicat. They
hoe Top Socut klarince
Continuing boses since 1941.
14-00000

JOE TERER
ORD/3901

HUGH C. MC DONALD,
WORLD ASSOCIATES
INC.

SANTA MONICA,
CRIIF

STEVE ROCCA + TSD
2835. ED. SUDALL PROJECT.
MONITOR)
Pes Voice IDENT SHO
FDETE KIT

VISIT WASH IN ZWEEKS.
JACK TELESRUCE
JACK
TERISINE
FARGO - Loxstun
14-00000-

ATTH :
Chief, TSD/MPS
22 April 1969
Colonel Fest
Director, Domestic Contact Service

DCS Case 528?2 - Hugh C. McDonald - World Associates, Inc., Santa Monica,
California, offers to Assist Agency

1. Subject is well known to TSD and CRD components as
developer of Identi-Kit. More recently he has been involved in
developing a positive voice identification system (not to be
confused with voice prints). McDonald is willing to demonstrate
this systes to interested TSD consupers and other components
of the Agency. More importantly, subject is planning a world tour
or foreign cinistries, banking and business institutions, police
organizations and friendly intelligence services, to demonstrate his
various projucts. Subject’s itinerary has not been firmed up but will
be available when plans are completed for the world tour. lhe plans to be
in Washington on other business matters in the next three weeks and would
be glad to demonstrate his voice identification syster to TSD and ORD
representatives and accept any operational requirements which may be
generated by appropriate TSD consumers, in connection with his world tour.

2. Be would appreciate TSD’s reaction to Mr. McDonald’s offer
and some indication of the number of Agency representatives who would be
interested in meeting with Mr. McDonald in Washington, D. C.

3. Further inquiries should be directed to George S. Musulin,
DCS, Operational Support Staff, Extension 2268.

JAMES R. MURPHY

GSMusulin/js
cc: Services Div. (Control)
14-00000

3268

ROUTINE
21 APR 69	1600	1	1
								83002
CONTACTS/LOS ANGELES KESUKEXX

FROM OSS (MUSULIN)

NEW CASE 52872 - HUGH RA C. MCDONALD WORLD ASSOCIATES INC., SANTA HONICA, CALIFORNIA

OFFERS TO ASSIST AGENCY (Closed Case 34441)

THIS IS NEX CASE OPENED TO YOUR OFFICE.

SUBJECT IS WELL KNOWN TO TSD/ORD COMPONENTS AS THE DEVELOPER OF IDENTI-KIT.

MORE RECENTLY INVOLVED IN DEVELOPMENT OF POSITIVE VOICE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM (NOT TO
BE CONFUSED #ITU VOICE PRINTS). SUBJECT PLANNING WORLD TOUR TO DEMONSTRATE HIS
PRODUCTS TO FOREIGN BUSINESS AND BANKING INSTITUTIONS, FOREIGN MINISTRY’S POLICE
ORGANIZATION AND FRIENDLY INTELLIGENCE SERVICES. IN APPRECIATION FOR PAST ASSISTANCE
PROVIDED HIM BY TSD/ORD FOR DEVELOPMENT OF IDENTI-KIT, HE IS OFFERING TO DEMONSTRATE
HIS VOICE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM TO INTERESTED CS COMPONENTS AND TO SERVICE OPERATIONAL
REQUIREMENTS WHICH MAY BE OF INTEREST TO TSD AND OTHER AGENCY COMPONENTS, IN CONNECTION
WITH HIS WORLD TOUR. SURJECT PLANS TO VISIT NASHINGTON, D. C., WITHIN NEXT THREE WEEKS.

PLEASE CONTACT SUBJECT, OSTAIN ITINERARY AND ADVISE HIM WE SOLICITING TSD CONSUMERS
TO DETERMINE THOSE INTERESTED IN HIS VOICE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM AND OTHERS WHO MAY
WISH TO TASK HIM WITH POSSIBLE OPS REQUIREMENTS.
..
SUBJECT HOLDS DCS. SECURITY APPROVED (CAUTION) CLEARANCE (DEC 1954) SH SHOULD BE
UPDATED. PLEASE EXPEDITS.

SECRET

14-00000

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:  MCDONALD, Hugh C.
DCD 04-61-88

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:  ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE	DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED		REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)	SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
14-00000

----
(ian Filist In)

MEMORANDUM TO : CELYY, LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE
DATE 6 May 1969
: AD HOC CLEARANCE	F-4-61-88
: CASE 52872
Security Division her granted ad hoc chon tara
CONTINENTIAL TO DE RAZEED TO SECRET AFTER EFM CH IS COFLERED
on the following:
Security/Checke will be cepicted.
TRI’s will be completed at a later aste.

CC: MASULIN
Virginia Thurne
VIRGINIA L. THORNE
Security Liaison Officer
SECURITY MARA 7065
GEOUP I
FACULDED PHON AURUMATIC
EXCLUDED FROM
DE LO DECLASSICAFIO
14-00000
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-X--I-A-L
(then Filled in)
F-4-61-88
DATE 27 May 1969

MEMORARDUK TO:	CRIEF, LOS ANGELES FIELD OVVICE

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT : AD HOC CLEARAECE

:	CASE 52872

Security Division has granted ad hoc clearence thru
SUCHER ER ДАC MER DE COUPLE NUD APPROVAL CAR AR CRAFZID
on the following:

Security cr
MMH C. NO DONALD

CC: MISULIH
Virginia Home
VIRUIFIA L. TEORER
Security Liaison Officer

SECURITY MESSAGE 7260

GROUP
EXCLUDED FROM UTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATIOЯ

VThorna: gry

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-F-I-A-L
14-00000

Chief, Perconnel Security Division, 08

Director, Domestic Contact Cervica
(Chief, Gervices Division)

EC DONALD, Engh C.
189 460
-
Alleged Soipaent of New Hissiles to Cuba/Possible
Exaggeration
SECRET
F4-61-88

1 June 1970

: DCS Brandna to 08 dated 30 January 1970

1. The inforantion reported in the enclosed copies of MEMORANDA
FOR THE HEMED from our los Angeles Office, concerning our field
representativa’s recent interviev and telephone conversation with
Subject, nay be of interest. The infonsation reported in paragraphs
4 and 5 of the 25 March reprendua may be of particular interest.

2. Any questicas pertaining to this memorandum should be
directed to tra. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 273.

SECURITY
Y

Enclosures: As stated above
Nano-atd. 25 March 1970
Neno-dtd. 15 April 1970
Thorne:gru

SECRET
GROUP 1
Exclede: trasa satomatic
declassification

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
F-4-61-88

Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS
30 Jummary 1970
Director, Domestic Contect Gervice
(Cnief, Services Division)

AC DOEALD, Hugh C. - Mesting With Proprietor of World Associates, Inc.

1. The information reported in the enclosed self-explanatory
Kesarandım from our Los Angeles Office, concerning Subject’s crgan-
ization and his belief that it will have a reallligence poten-
tial for providing economie, political and othek duation, to for-
varded as of possible interest and future reverence
2. As stated in paragraph 3 of the
closure our feprecentative
told Gabject that the Agency ins no interest in his plens since his
cromization has law enforcement afflictions.

3. Any questicas pertaining to tass fm should be directed
to Mrs. Virginia L. Thoras, Extension 27
FRAEK YOUEC

Biclosure: As Stated Above
Phorne: can

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000

23 Jan 1970

dec: World Acceinte (Hugh Hebonald, Propristor)
:
1. On 13 January 1970, at the request of hand, I met with בל
for Cunch. He went into the came routine above to jontaation entisipeting
opratsing throughout the world in vezicus countries in connection with back
cecurity work. Quaried specifically on this suriyation, ha
inferend to that he hoped to work with thể anh c
of Rochester, New York, in acting up security
In a
credis enri lerses in foreign countries.
thet he was planning to pus low enforcement off
various countries who would have access to go
vould, in turn, sat in listsen for him with
younkaradit conis, or merchants, in vorige
Ardilly, he said that if a credit c
(andal, and once his organisation
ep, he would notify a11
on : siere and not charge
SECURITY
The trend of the
some assistance
1 whether or ad
had not, but tha
ay 1970 during thich
seple on a monthly retainer
..
his law enforce ant
in the city te be
that Maconald vos agama
catting up his organization. I
2 off the ground as yet and ha
ngate to Purepe sometime in
Le anticipates that he will put these
Mafaals he will have a real incelligenze
Mitića going in different countries that will provida cronoate,
gical, and echer types of information. Obviously, Natenald.ice for yoz
Hind any fium zrecacements with the Dent of fantes or Inter-n.

3. I told MeDonald that I had previously Ecrwarded infomation ecnseming
hải giữa có my headquarters and that the reply I and received was c
ichmuch as his organization had low enforchenflitostens the
b
oute
Emperest to the Agency. Melenald then switched the ecavernacion
complutely was said that we was orly interested in informing u
existence of his organimntica cbrced. Ca this basis, I said that I would
gled to make a record of the conversation..

14-00000
i

-2-
:
4. After casting with Matonald on the occasions now I have come to the
conclusion that he has some grandiose plans but has reching to back chea
כט.

EPAL/bas
cc: DCS, Services Division
File: World Associates
R. P. 2. L
Prapy
L
CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
DATE 20 August 1969.

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE

: Ad Hoc Clearenme

REFERENCE: a) LCS - R - 10 - 30
b) CASE 52872
								F.4-61-88

Re HUGH C. NG DONALD
Security Divisica nas

grested så toe cluncance througe "Smart" for Denied Ares Briering.

Pavorable Paticcal Agency Dicke vere couplece APRIL 1969

Current Fai Checke vins completed, JAY 1969

03 bas no setina to your use of Su with the

DCT’s Remorandum dated 25 Bovestar 195k

Coordinatics for Denisi P
SECURITY

with DE R-10-30 hly by the appropriate

Headquartere Dilip

FORESTA DE TROGE
Semrity Lisisca Officer

ARLOVESSON LIDOVES

GROUP I
EXCIATIED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWSGRANDES AND DECLASSIFICATION

B-B-C-R-E-T
7868
14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

The F-10
F-4-61-88
Los Angico 7.0.

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE : 19 August 1959

TO : Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT: MC DONALD, Hugh C DENIED ADE
BRIEFING

FILE NO: 189460

1. Peference is made to your request for security checks on the subject
person as a source of intelligence information.

2. This is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with
the following results:
६.

b.

c.
No additional information has been obtained, except for such
biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

Information has been received that Subject was investigated with
favcrable results in 1953

Certain information has been received and appears in the attach-
ment which your Division will wish to consider in determining
the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying
information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be dis-
closed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different
name, this Division should be notified immediately.

4. 31 name check was completed May 1969. Other National Agency checks were
Completed on 11 August 1969.

5. This office has no objection to Subject being used in accordance with the
"DCI's memorandum dated 25 November 1961.
TSA

Chief, Personnel Security Division
for/Charles S. Phalen
RCM Lod
Os has coerdicted with comparent having prior
interest. There is no cojection to DCS use.

APPROVED/SECRET
FORM
1124
EBITIONS
CONFIDENTIAL DENIED AREA
BRIEFING

(9-47)
14-00000

28 APR 1969
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
BIOGRAPHIC DATA
1. SUBJECT'S LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME
MCDONALD	Hugh	C.
L. ALIAGES
A-46188
16 May 1913 - Hopkins, Mine.
4. SEX S. CITIZENSHIP
M	US
:
8. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH. CITIZENSHIP
Mifflin
NO.
EE-10772
3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
7.
RESIDENCES (Including No., and Streat, Zone, R.F.D., etc.)
COMPLETE ADDRESS
FROM
TO
Present	920 Euclid Street, Santa Monica, California
$1954	2601 Colonial Avenue, Mar Vista, California

1-46188
8.
EMPLOYMENT
FROM
TO
NAME OF EMPLOYER
Present	World Associates Inc.
COMPLETE ADDRESS
CONTINUED
406 Wilshire Blvd., Santa
Monica, California
1936	Los Angeles County Sheriff's 211 Temple Street, Los Angeles
Office	California
DEGREEO
FROM
10
1945
Military Affairs
1944 Military Government
1943	Japanese Language
1935		Political Science
EDUCATION (High school, ecllsgs, graduate work, etc.)
MAME OF SCHOOL
Stanford University
University of Virginia
University of Michigan
Univ. of Southern California
10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.
Major in Army Reserve (File 0504248)
CONTINUED

FORM 180 USE PREVIOUS
5-58
EDITIDES
MR 11-48
CONTINUED

01 MAY 1969

20 API.
28 APR 1559

14-00000

26 APR 1969

1.QUBJECT'S LAST NAME
5.
ALIASES
6
FIRST NAME
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
BIOGRAPHIC DATA
MIDDLE NAME
MC DONALD, Hugh C.
FULL NAME OF SPOUSE DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP
NO.
mmutin
3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTK.
16 May 1913; Hopkins, Minn.
4. GEX 5. CITIZENSHIP
M
US
TO
RESIDENCES (Jactuding No., and Street, Lome, R.F.D., etc.)
COMPLETE ADDRESS
Present
1954
१
920 Euclid Street, Santa Monica, California.
2601 Colonial Avenue, Mar Vista, California

EMPLOYMENT
NAME OF EMPLOYER
Present
World Associates Inc.
1936
1967
Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Office
COMPLETE ADDRESS
CONTINUED
406 Wilshire Blvd., Santa
Monica, California
211 Temple Street, Los Angeles,
California
TO
EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)
NAME OF SCHOOL
Stanford University
DEGREE OR MAJOR
1945
Military Affairs
1944 Military Governmart
1943
Japanese Language
1935
Univ. of Southern California
Political Science
University of Virginia
University of Michigan
10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN...
Major in Army Reserve (File 0504248)
CONTINUED
FORE 100 SE PREVIOUS
MFG
SDITIONS
C-52972

01 MAY 1960
DENIED ATEA
DRIEFING
5 MAY 1959

CONTINUED
14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
IMTZROFFICE TEMORANDUM

DATE: 8 November 1954

ΤΟ Chief, Contact Division, 00

FROM: Chief, Security Division, 50

SUBJECT: MODONALD, High C.
33-10772
A-46188
INACTIVE

1. Reference is made to your request for a security check on the Subject
person as a potential source of foreign intelligence information.

Based on information available as a result of our checks, Subject has
been placed in the designated category:

Approved - Subject may be given information classified up to and
including SECRET.

Approved (Caution) - Subject may be given information classified
up to and including SECRET provided discretion is exercised in
development as a source.

Limited - Subject may be given information classified up to and
including CONFIDENTIAL.

Disapproved - Subject may not be furnished any classified infor
mation.

Any pertinent information developed on Subject and not set forth in the
data sheet furnished by your Division, is set forth below, or in an attach-
ment. This additional information is for your confidential use only and is
not to be disseminated outside of CIA.

It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identi-
fying information you furnished, as outlined below, or in an attachment to
this; memorandum. Should it be disclosed that this information is erroneous
or that Subject is known by a different name, this Division should be noti-
fied inmediately.

Ermal P. Geiss
444
CONFIDENTIAL
DEC 6 1954

14-00000

HODONALD
29 July 1954
A-46188
Hugi
16 Hay 1913
K
C
Sopkins, Him.
US

Present
3001 Colortal Ave., Mar Vista, California

1936 Present Los Angeles County Sheriff’s 211 Temple Street
Office (Main Office) Los Angeles, Calif.

1935, Univ. of Southern Calif, Political Science; 1943, University of Michigan, Japanese
Language; 1944, University of Virginia, Military Government; 1945, Stanford University,
Military Affairs
Major in Aray Reserve (File 0504248)

14-00000-

:
A-04-61-88

HUGH C. McOHALD

NOIZ: Prior material on this source vas retired to Records
8, and has
Center under Box 17 ant Job 60-018.
subsequently been destroyed in accordance with the
disposition instructions authorized in the DCS Records
Control Schedule.

BUSINESS:
Subject is with:

All4-98-59 - World Associates, Inc., Santa Monica, California
ACTIVATED
DATE	4-22-64
INITIALS Hat

14-00000

SEDITION

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
LA 416-70

TO : Director, DCS DATE: 15 May 70
ATTN : OSS (Walker)

FROM : Chief, Los Angeles Office

SUBJECT: Case 52722

1. John Furfey passed the attached to me on Saturday, 9 Hay.
FYI I would like to comment as follows.

2. (Item 1) It was Herbert White, not Beske, who reported reporte
on the new radical group at Pitzer, source Linda Knolles. We doubt
that we can obtain much more in response to CI/SO questions. We
will try, but with caution, since we are dealing with a young, obvious
liberal female. As for Tom Clark, we think he is back at Cornell.
Our report to you covered all we know to date.

3. (Item 2) R. D. Beske will try and determine what he can
about Dr. and Mrs. Leo Kiper at UCLA. If everything appears favoracle
and we can clear we may contact. However, they are unknown to us.
Aak CI/S0 what they can tell us about them. It will help.

4. (