104-10104-10262 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL SECRET SECRET
USE ONLY

File: Kennedy
Assassination-

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: E/BC EXTENSION NO.

DATE 20 DEC 1967

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED

1. AC/EURBC 20 Dec 67 R 06C67-2367

2.

3. Office of John Greaney 1-3: Perm corisalis
General Counsel incidentally, I'm still
under state coris with my
08
[competitor]

4.
SECRET

5.
Passed oral info To
Mr Kossack That FBI Was
6.
given report in London fr.
[MI-5] Gout Garrison
Russell Foundation, on
7.
2 Jon 1968

8.
file
9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 EDITIONS USE ONLY
RS

SECRET 06C67-2367

20 December 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of General Counsel

ATTENTION : Mr. John Greaney

SUBJECT : James Garrison

1. Per our conversation in the environs of the DD/P's
office on 19 December, we have just received from [London] Station
ascrap of information on Subject's activities. [MI-5,
the British Security Service, has provided the following in
a report on Americans who are in correspondence with the
Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation:

"Jim Garrison, District Attorney, Orleans,
Louisiana

A secret and reliable source has reported that the
Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation has been in touch
with Jim Garrison. Our source states that the ini-
tiative in this contact appears to have come from
the Foundation and the purpose of it seems to be to
persuade Garrison to write an article about the
late President Kennedy's assassination which pre-
sumably the Foundation could use in some way."

2. [MI-5 has also passed this information to the Legal
Attache (FBI representative) in [London.] I would stress that
[MI-5's source is very sensitive and request that this office
be advised in advance if any executive action is to be taken
on the basis of the above information.

Philip R. Fendig
AC/EURBC

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

SECRET
XML
