14-00000

104-10167-10127

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: RID/ SECRET (WHEN FILLED IN) ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET NOTE: In the absence of comments or indication of action taken, this cover sheet will be destroyed when the document is filed.

TO ROOM NO. DATE OFFICERS INITIALS COMMENTS
RECEIVE FORWARDED
1. HANE A 7 Permanent Charge FOR YOUR RETENTION
2. C
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
RECORD COPY
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20. RIMIS P
RID/FI 14001 2351 QDCHAR
ENCLOSURE FILE NUMBER 701-259716
ABSTRACT
INDEX
DATE MICROFILMED 18 Aug 57 DOCUMENT DATE UMA-12
RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) NO UMA 12

DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) RECEIVED FORWARDED

1. 03 /IT/AC/Flores 194 1- Copy Detached for Chrono
2.  163: Please see
3. . then that copy gets to
4.  Havana. Discuss
Carib/c this w/WH3/Catt
5.
40/Tharpe

6. Copy sent to
7. Station Havana
Carib/R nou accountable
8.  pouch 2 Sept
9.
10.
11.
12.
13. 14- Fle process for
14.  201-259716. Levi
RI/AN this corvisheet attached
15.
RI/FI

FORM USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
I DEC 36 610 EDITIONS USE ONLY US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1962 0-631715

VBR

---

14-00000

DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
TO Tier, Division 17774-12
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
FROM
KU (KARINZY) DATE
ARECT
(sowes) August 1957
Report of Contact with DMCHAR on 13 August 1957 ACTION REQUIRED
MARKED FOR INDEXING
REFERENCES) See Para 10. NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
URA-11 BY QUALIFIED Hq. DESK ONLY

1.  DMCHAR was asked first to bring me up to date on what he and the others
in his group have been doing and he reported that they were not doing much of
anything except waiting. Waiting, first, for some funds which they are expecting
to come primarily from the sale of the 3-5; and, second, waiting for the estab-
lishment of some better communication with their contacts in Cuba.

2.  With regard to the aircraft, DMCHAR told me on this date that he believes
he does now have a sale for the aircraft and he thinks the sale price will be between
03$50 and US$55 thousand.

3.  DMCHAR se i that plz has communicated with someone co (he wasn't sure of
the name) in an attempt to get funds fama people in Cuba. DCHAR presented
this in the light that co was "authorizing" some people in Cuba to go ahead
and solicit funds. In this connection, DMCHAR mentioned that at pre time in the
past Julio LOBO (note: this name has never been mentioned in any previous conversations
with this group) had considered donating 134100 thousand for the air force school
which DMCHAR was promoting at that time, but apparently became frightened of the
deal and nothing along this time materialized. DMCHAR said that he was hopef that
sonetime he would be able to reestablish contact with 1030. All is references
entirely coincidentai to my suggestions zie to BMW that I mat try to bring
this group together with Julio 030. Zaving learned of this previous connection,
I want to revive this idea ani proceed with the pien to bring these two together.

4.  If and when they are able to scriate some funds, it is their intention
to go ahead with their plans for the establishment of a propaganda program which
would be initially voice radio. DMCHAR said that he had been trying to persuase
OLEDBIAS and EDCOVE to a more narrow program within the limitations which I had sited
for then in a previous meeting (See -). He said he thinks now that this is
the more realistic approach. Dove holds to the original thinking that they 02
cannot commit themselves to sa in itations. DCHAR informed me that DCOVE requests
another recting with me. He was told that I would be away for a few days but veuid
contact him as soon as I return.

5.  I then questioned DCER about his mowledge and DBLAS' knowledge of the
presence of Soviet Russians. DER stated that his only information had come
5 to him through Douglas ROOT (ls to the Canadian via DVR referred to frequentiv
in his carlier debriefing SADELLY et al). Root claimed to his to have seen the 05
Soviets in Santiago de Cuba ani DMCHAR said that furthermore he had ottained the names
which he passed to Colonel LS in the American Brassy in Serena. When acces if
he thought these were the same Sovith that 13 hei referred to 'n his testirny
in Washington, DCEAR said he felt that they were, although he believed GORIAS
information was obtained independent of als, DCHAR'S, source.
-05

6. Going on in this vein, DCHAR stated that ROOT is one of several people
whom DEAR encouraged to remain in place and to go afing with Raul CASTRO and others
for the purpose of obtaining are specifie formation on Commists and Commist
activities in the armed forces. de said that along this line had been fint-05
duced to Fidel CAS-30's secret, whose name is Marta. at her Milane
is a scian nack nawe ut at the moment he
recall the nowe Warta". The
this relationship, it was emerted thet thet
there aced in this connectica vere Rasir ALDES, who is close to Paul Castro,
Juan FEDEZ de Castro of a Air force, הר: ב PECHARDO, DAR seys is
en Americas. Da is to לטלf כל by come means can re-establish comm
cation with these divilunio be will beנבנה ב formation marding
Cezminist activities in the then amped fores.

FORM USE PREVIOUS EDITION CLASSICATION
10 59 53 REPLACES SO
51205 حوار AND 5129
WHICH ALS DESCLETE

701-259716
CONTAINES IPAGE NO. 10/BR
1:2

---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL APCO NO.
-2

.In Ensor to his appeal se, I this I would try to help af
devise acme means of getting him posted that ve xos
wori to his wife to contact FDEZ de stie ate the Leaves for פנק
purpose of putting afa in content with me we want me and fastrust ha
in DCZAR's nave to pass on any and all fimation he has at thi

i
3. This group still believed, in of has been reported from te,
thet, while they may have some little font view as to how ORGAR
be trusted, Elecy FUTIERREZ Mazoo and 30 and the zen of the Second Front
of the Bocantray are and will remain arti-Castro and eventually will cove against
him.

9. It was learned that is rely Mine in Frank FICRET's house
at 2030 SW 60th Court, Miant, telephone 7-3330. He also informed me that CDETY
had been talking with him about some local friends th whom he produced the
names of some acquaintances of those whose names are 2:ssian. I have not yet
had an opportunity to discuss this with the COWY agent involveč..

10. I will meet with the poup again at the end of this week, at which tice
I expect they will have some codified position with regard to their activities
and will appeal again for assistance. Martie, it is surenied that DCEAR'S
recomendation with regard to having his wife get in touch with FADE de
Castro end to get hin debriefed be passed to the Ravana Station.

Hamley
PATRICK I.
3-ज

FORM LISE PREVIOUS EDITION CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO
109 530 REPLACES FORMS
51351-28A AHD 51-29 CONTINUED 2 of 2
