104-10225-10012 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SLSHELL-5 VOL.V 201-3073
5 of
SECRET

OFFICIAL CS FILE

FORM SECRET
1505 B
== 2.
14-00000

SECRET 20 Jan 1975

CONTACT REPORT
Agent - PACHANKIS
D/P/T: 20 Jan 75/ Fairfax Holiday Inn/rm 363/0830-0939

<S. Miguel Angel DIAZ Isalque: I showed P the letter from DIAZ to the
PO Box 982 Coral Gables box; P said he did not know that address and had no
idea how DIAZ might have got it. I told P it was a sensitive address which we
did not want to have blown, asked him to contact DIAZ, ostensibly because
KALBING (who long ago was having P prime DIAZ for a trip to Madrid, which
never came off) had sent regards and an explanation of why the Madrid thing
fell thru) P is to make no mention of the Coral Gables address or the letter,
but assuming DIAZ will bring it up, to try to discover how DIAZ got that address,
while also discovering what it is DIAZ had in mind when he wrote the letter.
P thinks he has DIAZ phone number, if necessary can use the ploy of having
seen DIAZ TV ad for his furniture store>

Emery D. PREMSELAR

SECRET
RECORD COPY
20 JAN 75
201-3073378

14-00000

28 MARCH 1975
SUBJECT: Contact Report on Miguel Isalgue:
1. (Background). I)Os in a series of many important clandestine
fours during the early/mid 1960s put his life on the line many times Forus in
different assignments. In c. Oct 1963, How examined and approved by HS to become
an American citizen. He paid Court Fee and expected to be called shortly
thereefter for the Naturalization Court ceremony. To date,
he has not been naturalized and HS has refused according toJR
satisfactorily explain the cause JR for this
unusual delay. (Dasked us in c. Februry 1975 to help
determine the cause for the INS Delay? He has come back saying
he should make one more attempt with 11s before his would
check with her INS laison.)
2. On 21 and 27 March, i act with land informed him of
Was suggestion that he check once again with HS.
informs me he went back to ING and has been given the same
evasive/vaque explanation: "Your case is under investigation.
We'll call you when it's finished." (or words to that effect.)
3. (D)has extensive business relations in both Costa Rica and
Venezuela. He desparately needs a 1passport to travel
freely.
4. As far as I know, (O)has been a loyal/daring agent who has
always been ready to cooperate (and still does). If we
possibly can -consistent with current policy- offer a hand to
this man, at this time, we will be creating a great amount
of goodwill with(2) God know we need to hang on to as many
good and old friends as we can.
5. IF -for some reason-D's case with ING is murky, and he is
ineligible to be an ANCIT, then we should know that, too.
6. Before beating this dead horse any further, let me sum up.
If its a bureaucratic snafu by INS, lets help (0) if, on
the other hand, INS has legitimate cise against (0) lets
find out the detalls for the sake of our security.
7. (C)
I promised pass the word to our people up Branch
hopefully have some word on the status of his case soon.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.
14-00000

MEMORANDUM
TO: Marvin L. Extrom DATE: January 7, 1975
FROM: McKercher and Avant MKA 3/75
SUBJECT: Letter from "MIGUEL"
Att: Andy:
Enclosed is a copy of the letter received in our "Special Payments" P. O.
Box 982 (Coral Gables Station), which I translated to you over the tele-
phone on this date. Also enclosed is a copy of the envelope.

MARIO GIRBAU

14-00000

Discount
MUEBLES Y EFECTOS ELECTRICOS
PHONES 641-22376
641-2396
2235 W. FLAGLER ST.
MIAMI, FLORIDA 33138
AICO JOE:
NOVEIDER 27 1974.-
SI PUEDES DAME UN TIMBRAZO CUANDO RECIBAS LA CARTA,
PUREDES LLARIE A LI KLUBVO NEGOCIO CON LOS TELEFONOS
QUE PUEDES VER EN PAPEL TIMBRADO O AMI CASA DES-
PUES DE LAS 10 P.M.

GRACIAS,
MICUEL

TELEFONO DE MI CASA. 856-1345

14-00000

Hogarama Discount
2235 W. FLAGLER STREET
MIAMI, FLORIDA 33135
SERVICE
R. DOTH L. ARNS
P.O. FOX 982
CORAL CARTES, FLA, 33134

14-00000

7.
LA
TATTO

SUJCT: Contact Report on Hiquel DIAS 1111que:
i. in
4.

Form
int
mround how he came
an mot for ramchal that the Carriott Hotel
certain why he wanted to
possession of the sensitive Office accomodation address.
Setting hold
Nique!
toued about way.
could not 1p my hand and adm
trom!
ved his
was difficult and aso to be done in
letter.
just to write to his home address and
enclose a stamped, self sealed envelope to my new PO Box.

As always, our meeting was most pleasant and contortable. association does back many years and i have always had t greatest respect for his talents and motivation.
Kiguel stated he had been try! wing to re reach me and thought ho
could do it through:

RELATIONS
H2020
Camas
ur
Orlando STHOU
1613 N 14th Court
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla
tel 21. 763-1346.
Orlando worked inside for the organization in the 1960s, b been lamprisoned and finally released in c. 1970. I had
debriefed him at that time and serviced some other requests
he had to make to the Organization in subsequent months.
Orlando's wife at Miquel's wife are related. Orlando's wire
had been receiving Organization resistance while he was in prisen and evidently received her funds tarough the reverence
PO Box. Riquel wanted to get in touch with me and asked Orlando If he had away of communicating with the organization.
then supplied Siquel with the Po Box.

I did not press Fiquel for any further details. Orlando
this answers most of our questions. I denied having received
Miquel's letter and Miquel roisoned that it was "probably
one of those old dresses which isn't in," I seconded his Lionhts.
I told said had been trying to get lo of him since Christmas to 547 hello, but he had changed his phone.
Riguel's interest in sening me was for the following:

On 25 October 1973, he was interviewed by DNS fos US citizen's Jerlition,
improved, and part. 2 at the US pistrict Court in lumi. * A 3 -A3J ??”
been calleit back. This is usually a routine, fast process.

2. 2:175
201-37337
W

14-00000
8.
yoral
Mimo! hos been to nimi
timire re the delay in riving his and his wife and
doughter) their US citizenship. He has always been told
that "nothing is wrong." and that he will needlet soon.
Put over a year's wait is not norm! be wrong.

in view of Miquel's past relationship with us he wonders
If this is holding up his citizenship. He asks U
imutre with the responsible authorities and Jer
koow the present status of the cUSD.
0. Would the Office please contact DNS so we can annist
Miquel in some way and find out why he has not been
Called to take his citizen's oath? Thanks in advance..
E. The details are:

Miquel DIAZ Isalgue. A 11 264 049
Has US District Court receipt # 82427, dated
Oct 25, 1973 for $25.00.

wife: Fabiola Fura DE LA PORTILLA de DIAZ. A 12 445 501
daughter:
ilas US District Court receipt under the name
of Fabiola Furo DIAZ, # 82426, date 25 Oct 1973,
for $ 25.00.
Faria Rosa DIAZ A 12 445 502.
7. Operationally, Miquel is always ready and willing to cooperate
and collaborate. When I was last asked to contact Miquel over
a your age ne was asked if he would be available to re contact
CLFC4-1 in trii. Although his answer was in the affirmative,
there was never any followup.

8. Riquel now has business ventures in both Costa Rica and
Venezuel. He claims to have well placed frien is in the
Costa Pican government. He has recently began importing
appliances into Venezu. montit there is:
9.
28201-0756656

Antonto PIOLO nat unknown) Caucasi in cale.
1934 in Guantanamo, oriente, cu
BUSTILLO is the "right hand man" of Venezuelan Cininter,
and confidant of Carlos Andres PERE: 201-0104034
nox!
Orlando SAR (mat unknown.) Cane stop sale.
Des: c. 1024 in Havana, Cuba.

Miguel lei ne to understand that he is available in whatever
task we right need nim. I have promised to pestris on o
the office. I have just scratched the surface not knowing

14-00000
10.
:
what interes, if any, the office has. Put, with the
impending blishment of coc dialectic relation;
with both an! Venezuela, Zigrel might be
in developing access agents to the how
Cubanaisalon Gersonnel, or any other assignment we
might romfre along these Line. Please advice.
:
I promised Noel that I would pass on his reptest to
The Office and get back to him just as soon as I had some
answer.
PS: For the record: Iquel is not looking for a job. He
appears affluent and quite busy with his business ventures.
But, fam almost certain he would contribute its services
for the cause, if we need him, with complete dedication.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.

20-39337

Poferoper:
rostre foredr:
bored or report of his r
-
 Firnley 1.
:
FOG IN
307 337
UFAA-1937
Typed:
FI
20 July 1972
201-840126
500-307337

CS COPY FILED I

14-00000

PGHOST
Le

TRANSMITTAL
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONU HOTIFIED
LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
(When filled In)
ROUTING
AND OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

5
6
7
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTIED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRYMED
DY:
AT
8

ROUTING

7
DISSEM BY 35
ACTION UNIT
WHS

ACTION NO
FILF, VR
S/AN, EURG, Cl/ops.

SECRET 1816352 SEP 72 STAFF
CITE (NADRID (17263
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI.
AKULE TYPIP TREF: WH/MAIMI 15782
@708738)
711080
1. QUTIMID REPORTS AMWOLF-1 AND FAMILY PROBABLY RETURNING
HOME PCS IN FEBRUARY. THIS HAS NOT BEEN CONFIRMED BY OTHER
SOURCES. BELIEVE IT BEST TO SCHEDULE FIRST WEEK IN OCTOBER,
FROM POINT OF VIEW HERE THIS WOULD BE BEST TIME.
2. HAVE HAD LOOSE SURVEILLANCE ON AMWOLF-1 FROM TIME TO
TIME AND PLAN TO ONCREASE COVERAGE OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS.
3. FILE: 201-307337. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET

Temp
ww
18.Sip 72
ES COPY
SECRET SLSHELL20130733?

14-00000
SEET

7 January 1975
MEMORANDUM FOR: C/LA/COC/CI
ATTENTION Chris Hopkins
SUBJECT: MHMUTUAL/MIISAVVY
1. MHSAVVY/2 received this date a letter in his Kenneth L.
Arens post office box of the following substance:
(Envelope mailed November 29, 1974)
"November 27, 1974
Hogarama Discount
2225 West Flagler Street
Telephone 541-2395
"Dear Joe:
Please call me when you receive this letter.
You can call me at my new business with the tele-
phone number given above or you can call me at
my home after 10:00 p.m. Home Number 846-1345.
Thank you.

Miguel"
2. A copy of the original letter in Spanish is being
forwarded by MIISAVVY/2 to MHMUTUAL. When received it will,
in turn, be forwarded to LA/COG/CI. MHSAVVY/1 and 2 state
that Hogarama Discount is owned by Miguel Diaz Izalgue,
Further, MHSAVVY/1 states that he knows this man was in con-
tact with BKHERALD some years ago.

CCS/MHMUTUAL/CDB/maf
Distribution:
Orig - Addressee
ET
Cedric D. BARTILUCCI (P)
CCS/MHMUTUAL
E2 IMPDET CL BY 000264

-112
-307337

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONUNT NOTIFIED

EDIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
(When filled in)
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND OR ITALIAN SEEM DY

6
7
ADWANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTIED
MEPRODUCTION OF THE COPY PIOHISTE[
DY:
AT
3. AT
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
10
57.9.4
77
FILE VR c/MPAN C/EURS da

SECRET 2020032 SEP 72 STAFF
CITE WH/MIAMI 15838 (VEAUSELL ACTING)

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR.
TYPIC AKULE
REF: A. WH/MIAMI 15782(70873.7)
B. MADRID 17260 (in 711054)
C. WH/MIAMI 15653((697422)

1. CONCUR FIRST WEEK OCTOBER AS BEST DATE. PLEASE CONFIRM
SPECIFIC DATE SOONEST.
2. FILE: 201-307337. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET

20 Sep 72
14-00000

SECRET
(When filled in)
SUSPENSE MEMORANDUM RECORD

A memorandum was written concerning the Subject
of this 201 on

16 DEC 1974
(date)
for
by
(requester)
Laken
(analyst name)
in reply to a request

(office
extension)
received on

(cate)

NOTICE
REMOVE AND DESTROY THIS SUSPENSE MEMORANDUM RECORD
WHEN NAME TRACE REQUEST FORM AND/OR DDO COPY OF 2
MEMORANDUM IS FILED IN THIS 201.

SECRET
(When filled in)
E2 INPDET
CL BY 059858
== 18
14-00000

CAL SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION 17143
N
A4
4
C
2
3
CLASS 19 1 MESBAGE, TOTAL COME ROUTING AND INITIALE BEEN DY
SECRET
L(When Filad In
T
W
REPRODUCTION OF THE COPY PROH1D
V
DY
AT
SERA
S206
WH7ILE. FR Goto 2 doors 1
40
2.
746790
020
SECRET 3016347 OCT 72 STAFF

12
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI
RYBAT TYPIC:
MADRID (17555 MADR

41 CAME-HAL K-5 RETURNED DIRECT TO MIAMI VIA AERONAVE DE
MEXICO FLIGHIC ON 28 OCTO DER
2 901-30037. E2 IMPDET.
FILF: 201-907557
SECRET

0 OCT 1972
SECRET

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIC MESSAGE
SECRET
(When filled In)
TOTAL COMES
•
W
MOLINE
AND INITIALS SILY BY
1
4
3
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTIED
BORUCTION OF THIS COPY PREIDITED

Al

BY
31
AT
7
DISTIN BY ACTION UNIT
.
FILE. VR 1170
" 7
I
BIECT 3016347
1310071: OCT 72 STAFF

CITE MADRID 17555
DIRECTING WIOMIAMI
RYBAT TYPIC

1. CANCHAL K-5 RETURNED DIRECT TO MIAMI VIA AERONOVE DE
MEXICO FLIGHT ON 28 OCTORE
2. FILE: 201 307337 12 IMPDET
SECRET
AICHALE
14-00000

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
TOTAL CODES 77/3

ROITING AND ON MITIALS-STENT MY
(
"
C)
SEORET

ADVANCE COPY
3
ISSUED
CIMATED
O
-
10
OY
A.
24
28
LCTION LINT
TILE VR EN EL
SECRET1923387 OCT 72 STAFF
CITE MEXICO CITY (M22
MADRID, DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI.
738672.

PEOPIC ARWOLF
REF: DIRECTOR 326678
1. FYI: PINERO'S NAME DOES NOT APPEAR ON ANY
AIRLINE MANIFESTS DEPARTING MEXICO CITY FOR MADRID
OR OTHER EUROPEAN CITIES BETWEEN 13-17 OCT. 
ATTEMPT MONITOR POSSIBLE ONWARD TRAVEL.
WILL
2. FILE: AMWOLF-1, AMCHALK -5. 291-0824376.
201-01
E2 IMPDET, WM-SISM
SECRET

401-1824396
2 OCT 72

0 307 337

SECRET
14-00000
:
0 18 OCTOBER 1972
LE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MENGAGE FORM
YOTNI CITIES: 6
SECRETTTIALS DEEN BY
INDEX - RETURNDO
NO INDES DRANCH FILE NO
Y
FILEVR. J
(clessitication)
SECRET
CITI DIRECTOF
1007232
MADRID INFO MEXICO CITY WH/KICAMI
TYPIC AKMOLF
REP: MEXICO CITY 21363 (IN 734975) (NOT SENT MADRID)
1. RAP REPORTED TRAVEL PEDRO RINEO ERIN, PP D/71/1177,
CUBA TO MEXICO, 13 OCTOBER 72.
2. THOUGH CUBANS SUPPOSEDLY UNAWARE PLANNED AMCHALK-5 APPROAC
TO ALMOLF-1, SUGGEST MADRID WATCH FOR POSSIDLE ARRIVAL PINERO,
AS ME INVOLVED IN JUNE 1967 AZWOLF-1/ALCHALK-5 MEETING.
3. MEXICO CITY: IF PINERO'S ACTIVITIES OR ANY ONWARD TRAVEL
COME TO ATTENTION OF STATION, PLS REPORT.
4. FILE: AZWOLF-1, AMCHALK-5, 201-821376. E2 IMPDET.
END OF MESSAGE

(WH COMVENT:
101:26741
Ref reported travel, paragraph 1.

C/WH/COG
2
C/EU/18
THEODORE G. SHACLEY
C/WHID
11
4-00000

CARLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION 140

ADWANCE COPY
ISSUED
AASSIFIED MESCAGE
TOTAL COPIES
4,6,2
SECRETBAY
(Hied Inl
ROUTING ANDOR INITIALS BEENT 17

21
DY:

311
DISSEM BE
ACTION
FILE. VR
067
Maysen
CLIFIAN
COPIA

SECRET 1714072 OCT 72 STAFF

CITE HADRIO 17443
DIRECTOR. WIDIAMI.

RYBAT TYPIC
1. THROUGH QUEYE SURVEILLANCE IT WAS DETERMINED ON
REJ MARDIO 1740/1073083)

16 OCTOBER THAT AWWOLF! LEFT THE CONSULATE ALONE AND WENT TO HIS
APARTMENT. ON THE BASIS OF THIS ALERT, POSITIONED ANCHALIKIS
NEAR GARAGE WHERE AMWOLF/ PARKS HIS CAR.

2. AT 1656 HOURS 16 OCTOBER WHEN AMWOLF/! LEFT THE GARAGE,
AMCHALY/5 WAS ABLE TO STOP HIM HALF A BLOCK FROM HIS APARTMENT
AND CARRIED ON A SIX MINUTE CONVERSATION. INITIALLY AMWOLF/!
WAS COLD, VISUALLY UPSET BUT LATER BECAME JOVIAL. AT FIRST
INSISTED THAT AMCHALK/5 COME TO THE CONSULATE OR CALL HIM TO
SET UP MEETING. HOWEVER, ANCHALK/5 INSISTED THEY TALK THEN
AND AMWOLF/! AGREED. AFTER AMCHALK/S MADE THE PITCH, AUWOLF/!
REACTED BY SAYING "THESE JOHNIES' HAVE EVERYTHING AND NOW THEY
REALLY STEPPED ON ME". AWWOLF/1 ENDED THE CONVERSATION BY
AGAIN AKSING AMCHALK/5 TO COME TO CONSULATE OR CALL HIM SO THEY
COULD HAVE ANOTHER TALK. AWWOLF/1 RETURNED TO THE CAR WHERE HIS
WIFE WAS WAITING AND STARTED THE MOTOR AND THEN STOPPED AGAIN AND
GOT OUT. HE THEN HAD AMCHALK/5 COME OVER AND INTRODUCED HIS

14-00000
WIFE TELLING HER THAT HE HAD JUST BEEN PITCHED ON BEHALF OF
NOQUAL. 841 REACTED BY SMILING PLEASANTLY AS IF THERE WAS
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG WITH WHAT HAPPENED.
5. ANCHALK/5 COMMENTED TO CASE OFFICER THAT HE DID NOT THINK
ANNOLF/1 WOULD CHANGE HIS POSITION NOW. AMCHALK/5 BELIEVES WE SHOULD
WAIT A FEW DAYS BEFORE ATTEMPTING ANOTHER CONTACT EITHER BY ANOTHER
MEETING OR TELEPHONE CALL, STATION AGREES WE SHOULD WAIT A FEW
DAYS BUT THAT A TELEPHONE CALL SHOULD PRECEDE ANY MEETING. IF THE
TELEPHONE CALL PRODUCES A CONTINUED NEGATIVE REACTION, WOULD NOT PROCEED
WITH SECOND MEETING UNLESS HQS DESIRES CONTRARY. BELIEVE WE
WILL GET SOME REACTION FROM QUTINID IN THE NEXT SEVERAL DAYS.
ANOTHER FACTOR IS THAT AFTER THE ENCOUNTER, ANWOLF/1 WENT TO THE
EMBASSY BUT DID NOT REMAIN. BURVEILLANCE WAS NOT ABLE TO LOCATE
HIM AT THE CONSULATE.
4. POUCHING DETAILED REPORT.
5. FILE: 201-840126. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET WH/COG/281-72
10 October 1972

CONTACT REPORT: Meeting with AMCHALK-5
TIME AND PLACE: Kennedy Airport, New York, Saturday
7 October 1972

1. I met AMCHALK-5 at the airport and spent three hours
with him between flights. I passed him the note from C/COG
for delivery to his contact in Madrid station. This note
confirmed what I told AMCHALK-5 orally concerning the amount
of money that could be offered AMWOLF-1 for his defection er
recruitment.

2. I briefed AMCHALK-5 on the contact arrangements and
operational plan proposed by Madrid. AMCHALK-5 is still
confident that he will have success in his contact with AMWOLF-1.

Cola. Monill
Alan G. Morrill
C/WH/COG/FI

14-00000

5 October 1972

MEMORANDUM FORE Record

SUBJECT : Meeting with AMCHALK-5
TIME AND PLACE: Miami, 3 and 4 OCTOBER

1. I met AMCHALK-5 at 1430 hours at the Rusty Pelican
Restuarant. I told him we would like to have him travel
immediatoly in order to arrive in Madrid by 9 October. AMCHALK-5
said he could make it with no problem. He wasn't sure his wife
would be able to go on such short notice, but that didn't matter.
I briefed him on the contact arrangements sent from Madrid and
described WIBALDA to him. I told him WIBALDA'S name is "ROBERTO."
AMCHALK-5 said he would make the 0930 hours contact on 10 October,
but of course if something goes wrong that he will go to all
the alternate meetings. He will be wearing a white sports
jacket, white shirt, blus tie, blue slacks and black shoes.

2. I told AMCHALK-5 that WIBALDA would have the letter
for AMGHOST-1 for hia to take to the meeting, and I told him
again not to use the letter unless his recruitmont pitch had
no results. If he does pass the letter, I suggested that he
flex it to prove to AMWOLF-1 that it does not contain a bomb.

3. I told AMCHALK-5 that it looked good for a surprige
contact with AMWOLF-1 on 10 October and because ho would bo
going to lunch with a woman not connected with his offico.
AMCHALK-5 was pleased to hear this sa because he feels he must
make the contact unannounced for it to be effective. He said
that if the October 10 contact was missed, there would probably
be another luncheon the following week. AMCHALK-5 is willing
to stay in Madrid as long as nесеввагу.
4. AMCHALK-5 was sorry to hear that I won't be going to
Madrid because he wants to be sure that he is given as much
flexibility as possible, and not forced to handle the approach
in a manner that he would not be comfortable with. I told him

WE AMCHALK.S
14-00000

-2-
that IBALDA understood the situation, and that I was sure it
would all go well. AMCHALK-5 assured me that he has no inten-
tion of letting himself get into a physically dangerous situation
during the contact.

5. If the contact is made next wook, AMCHALK-5 will be
back before the PACHANKIS is. I said we would want to debrief
hia in Miami and that either I would see him or PACHANKIS would.
I said that if PACHANKIS talks to him, he can tell PACILANKIS the
completo details of the operation unless I phoned him otherwise.
5. We arranged to meet again at 1900 hours when AMCHALK-5
wogld have his itinerary, and I could pass him the money he needed.
AMCHALK-5 doesn't want to be paid for this job, but I insisted
again that we would pay all his expenses, and I told him to save
his totel bill and other receipts. We met at 1900 hours at the
Vizcaya bar and then drove around in AMCHALK-5's car. I passed
hia 81,500 for which he signed a receipt. AMCHALK-5 had gotten
reservations and will leave Miami for New York on 7 October and
- thes fly to Lisbon that same night. He will spend 8 and 9 October
in Lisbon where he will rent a car and drive to Madrid, arriving
in the evening on 9. October. He has reservations in the Agumar
Hotel for 9 October, and he will make the first contact at 0930
hours on 10 October.
7. I wished ANCHALK-5 good luck. He is much more optomistic
about his chances with AMWOLF-1 than I am, but it is good to work
with a man with enthusiaam. Just in case AMCHALK-5 should be
successful, we should be prepared to support him. I suggest that
ve cabie Madrid telling them what and how much we are willing to
offer should AMWOLF-1 be interested in defecting. I told AMCHALK-5
that he could promise usylum, but I did not tell him how much money
he could offer as an inducement for either recruitment in place or
defection.
Oscar C. KALBING

14-00000

-2-
that IBALDA understood the situation, and that I was sure it
would all go well. AMCHALK-5 assured me that he has no inten-
tion of letting himself get into a physically dangerous situation
during the contact.
5. If the contact is made next week, AMCHALK-5 will be
back before the PACHANKIS is. I said we would want to debrief
him in Miami and that either I would see him or PACHANKIS would.
I said that if PACHANKIS talks to him, he can tell PACHANKIS the
completo details of the operation unless I phoned him otherwise.
6. We arranged to meet again at 1900 hours when AMCHALK-5
would have his itinerary, and I could pass him the money he needed.
AMCHALK-5 doesn't want to be paid for this job, but I insisted
again that we would pay all his expenses, and I told him to save
his hotel bill and other receipts. We met at 1900 hours at the
Vizcaya bar and then drove around in AMCHALK-5's car. I passed
him $1,500 for which he signed a receipt. AMCHALK-5 had gotten
reservations and will leave Miami for New York on 7 October and
thep fly to Lisbon that same night. He will spend 8 and 9 October
in Lisbon where he will rent a car and drive to Madrid, arriving
in the evening on 9 October. He has reservations in the Agumar
Hotel for 9 October, and he will make the first contact at 0930
hours on 10 October.
7. I wished ANCHALK-5 good luck. He is much more optomistic
about his chances with AMWOLF-1 than I am, but it is good to work
with a man with enthusiasm. Just in case AMCHALK-5 should be
successful, we should be prepared to support him. I suggest that
we cable Madrid telling them what and how much we are willing to
offer should AMWOLF-1 be interested in defecting. I told AMCHALK-5
that he could promise asylum, but I did not tell him how much money
he could offer as an inducement for either recruitment in place or
defection.

Oscar C. KALBING
14-00000

S ECRET

TELE POUCH
DISPATCH NO
UFAA 4402

221-307337
FILE NO
15 SEPTEMBER 1972
DATE

INDEXING NO

MICROFILM
TO
FROM
SUBJECT
REF

CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

TYPIC/AXULE - AMCHALK/5

WH/MIAMI 15782
1. DURING THE 12 SEPTEMBER 1972 MEETING MENTIONED IN
REFERENCE, AMCHALK/S COMMENTED ON AMEEDEW/I'S LATEST BOOK
AND THE FACT THAT HE WAS MENTION IN THREE OR FOUR PAGES.
SENSING AMCHALK/5 DISCOMPOSURE, PACHANKIS INQUIRED AS TO
THE REASON. AMCHALK/S REPLIED, "IT'S NOT THAT I'M UPSET
OR NOT. I JUST SEE NO REASON TO BRING ME OUT IN THIS POOK."
2. THE ABOVE IS FORWARDED TO HEADQUARTERS FOR WHATEVER
INTEREST IT MAY HAVE, ESPECIALLY IN LIGHT OF THE PROPOSED
USE OF AMCHLX/5 IN THE AMWOLF/1 OPERATION.

STANLEY F. SPECKLER

DISTRIBUTION
3 C/WHD

E2 IMPDET
SECRET

: the SCSHELL/S
14-00000

S E C R E T TELE POUCH
DISPATCH NO UFAA 4403
FILE NO 44-8-24
DATE 15 SEPTEMBER 1972
INDEXING NO
MICROFILM NO
TO CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION
INFO CHIEF, FAR EAST DIVISION
FROM CHIEF OF STATION, TOKYO
SUBJECT : CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI
AKULE/TYPIC/AMDODGE - 1972 CUBAN PRESENCE LIST
REF FJTA 61848, DATED 28 AUGUST 1972

WE WOULD APPRECIATE RECEIVING ACOPY OF THE LIST MENTIONED
IN REFERENCE.

STANLEY F. SPECKLER
DISTRIBUTION

3 C/WHD
2 C/FE
2 COS, TOKYO
E2 IMPDET
SECRET

SECRET
(When Filled in)

REQUEST FOR U.