14-00000

SECRET

30 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation between AMBIDDY-1 and Martin Ferrer

DATE : 30 June at 1100 hours

1. Upon Erneido Oliva's request, AMBIDDY-1 went to meet with him last night. At the meeting Oliva mentioned to A-1 that he (Oliva) was receiving the backing of KUBARK and the Pentagon and implied A-1 was also receiving aid. Oliva stated that he has met with Alfredo Rodemeyer, the same Rodemeyer that both of them had met early last year. A-1 replied this was all before the death of Kennedy and he no longer had contact with any of ODYOKE's officials. According to Oliva, Mr. Rodemeyer spoke badly of some of the personnel in A-l's organization, e.g., Antonio Iglesias, Oliva mentioned that he had talked with Thomas Mann recently and expected to see Mr. Mann within the coming week to receive support for his conventional warfare program. A-1 told Oliva he had no objection to the conventional warfare plan and that he would morally support Oliva in liberating Cuba. However, he would continue in his own little way with his unconventional war. According to A-1, he made it clear to Oliva that he was not receiving ODYOKE backing.

2. A-1 expects to leave on 1 July for Costa Pica tomorrow. He again mentioned that Adelaide will soon be leaving the United States. A-1 commented he does not expect to visit the United States as often as he has done in the past. A-1 asked that Enrique and Mr. Archer clearly under- stand that he does intend to keep his word concerning the changes he has mentioned to us at the last two meetings.

Above conversation conducted 
in prearranged frequently
changed privacy code

Recluded from automatis
c grading and
destaasi fteation

---

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

3.  A-1 expressed a desire to meet with Mr. Archer sometime after the August operations.

Raul J. Hernandez
WH/SA/SO/HH

File:
AMBIDDY-1 201
Conversations
Oliva 201

Above conversation conducted
in prearranged frequently
shanged privacy code

SECRET

Ereluded from automats
grading and
declassification

---

14-00000

29 June 1964

ANNORLD'S MEETING IN NEW ORLEANS, 24 June 1964

SUBJECT: ANBIDDY-1's Image and Philosophy

1.  ANBIDDY-1's preoccupation with his political image shone thru, when he inquired whether we suspected him of dictatorial leanings. We replied, in effect, that we entertained such suspicions and inclined toward taking his protestations of liberation and laisses faire with a heavy dose of salt. Once in power, he would treat the 1940 as a scrap of paper and run the country along autoritorian lines. Flattered by his implied inclusion in the line of succession, A-l only voiced mild dissent.

2.  Comments Considering the exigencies of autonomy which dany us much opportunity, let alone leverage in shaping ANGIDOT-1's political philosophy, we have conveyed to him to a variety of ways that we do not particularly care one way or the other, that we do not fancy him as a chosen instrument outside the periphery of AORLD and that by extension - we have no intention of promoting any political aspirations he may harbor. We have also left no doubt in his mind that we view his per- formance in the ANWORLD driver's seat rather than any philosophical streams of consciousness, as a dupendable gauge of how he would be performing in a position of political responsibility.

3. Vo pointed out to ANTIDDY-1 that Liberation Day would find a prestrate, bankrupt and exhausted people, weary to death ef politics and propaganda, exaving to be left alons for a stále te eelises its thoughts. There would be ne political infra- structure on which to build and promaturely called general elections 'vould merely serve to deluce the currency of parliamentary dome eracy even more. For a voile at least, a benign and just exscutibil vould have to restora Cuba's equilibriua and permit her te rebuild the feat ratione without which a descracy commot properly function.

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

In this contaxt, we mentioned sentiments expressed by AMBIDDY-1 on Venezuela TV deprecating largescale revenge during the re- construction pilase and voiced hope that he would do his share to see these noble ideas put inte effest.

cs: Policy
Artine's 201 file

Henry D. Recksher

SEQUET

---

14-00000

AMWORLD MEETING IN NEW ORLEANS, 24 June 1964

SUBJECT: Adlaida PADRON y Cruz - Decision to Nove Her to
Nicaragua

1.  Drawing liberally upon data supplied in UPGA 16512, we reminded AMBIDDY-1 about our misgivings regarding his association with Adelaida PADRON y Cruz. He conceded awareness of some of the rumors circulating about her past private life and stated that be had satisfied himself that they were unfounded. We injected that we knew that Jose Mole Rosales has been asked to do some investigating and had given Adelaida Padron a clean bill of health. We also happened to know that KXI was aware of the true story and for reasons of his own had decided to withhold it from ANBIDDY-1. we inquired what he knew about Senora MOLI and he commented that she had been a "bad women". We observed that the "had been" vas open to question.

2.  AMBIDDY-1 averred that he had listened to a telephone conversation betoon Adelaida and ber forser husband, Roger Rejas Lavernis, in which the latter had adnitted that the story about his having acted under higher orders when marrying Adolatda vere unfounded. AKBIDDY-l also charged the ex-husband of hoving tried to untice his wife to participate in ergies, bus tant Adelaida hed refused to do so.

3.  As regards Adelaida's alleged illicit relationship with ex-President BATISTA, AMBIDDY-1 simply declared the charge to be unfounded. Adelaida did kesy Carlos CANTILLO Gonzales the wo an old fried of the family. She also had met ex-Presi- dat Jums, but nothing of a compromising nature had ensued.

4.  When Gebed whether te me tous thes Advlatda bad intro- deod bia to several prominent Venezusians, he denied this and stated that introdestions had been made by stivia GARCIA, Brusted childhood friend of ANBIDDY-1.

SECRET

---

14-00000

-2-

5. Our query why Adelaida, if she had AMBIDDY-1's interests at heart, appeared to have qualms about oming up in respect to past events, was parried by AMBIDOY-1 by claiming that Adelaida was of course aware of all these rumors and had warned his of possible political embarrassment.

6. Evaluating UFGA 16512 on the basis of our talk with AMBIDUY-1, we conclude that its main source has a high batting average. At least there appears to be a hard core of truth to practically all allegations made, to the extent we ware able to check them out. We would venture the gross that, despite his protestations to the contrary, AMBIDDY-1 is quite conversant with Adelaida's past history, but can see no practical gain in so telling us. He may reason that an avowel of intent to marry a woman whose antecedents are in fact as described, would seriously blemish his image and that by pleading ignorance now he can, if things should get out of control, always strike a pose of injured Innocence and elicit a 'here but for the Grace of God ge I" re- action from his PBPRIME associates.

7. Agreement that all interested parties would benefit by zoving Adelaida's abode from the WAVE area to Bicaragua was reached on the basis of ANBIDDY-1's acceptance of our flat statement that we view Adelaida as a potential hazard to AMWORLD's and KUMARK'a security. He based this reasoning upon numerous indt cations that Adelaide had become all but completely privy to everything that was going on in AMWORLD and that her discretion Left a great deal to be desired. We drew no dental from ANBIDDY-1 shen stating that Adelaide had become witting of the WAVE training course for AMBIDDY-1 and that she presumably knew about KITBARK support for ANJORLD. We referred to Adelaida's lesbian associates, without stating that we suspected her of holding charter nembership in that cererity. He antioned by name Aida FEREZ and Lucia CANO. When the latter was labelled by us a lesbian believed to be in Adelaida's complute cmtidende, AMBIDDY-1 evinced surprise and fer recsene difficult to fathom almost disaay, we concluded by stressing the importance of breaking up adalatda's strale of associates and confidants as an indispensable prerequisite for containing the threat her access to informatica we consider classified represents and asked ANBIDOT-1 te sake sure that no member of this group would follow her to Kisaragua.

SECRET

---

14-00000

-3-

8. We made no attempt, which in any case would have been vain, to break up the relationship between AMBIDDY-1 and Adelaida. We apologized to him for involving ourselves in matters of a private and intimate nature which unfortunately være beginning to impinge upon ODYOKE security interests. ANBIDOT-1 in turn made it clear that he thinks he is in love and that separation is not in the cards. We dropped the issue by assuring AMBIDDY-1 that the day would come when things could be soon in better perspective and that he could depend on *us not to gloat of rewind him that we had told him se.

9. We mentioned offhand that we assumed that Adelaida had all the papers necessary to effect her departure fron POPRIMR. AMBIDDY-1 replied that she had not been able yet to get the necessary papers. We simply commented that she should ask for then.

HAVE
ADELAIDA 201
ARTDE' 201✓
Counterintelligamse

SECRET

Henry D. Hecksher

---

14-00000

TZED
XX

Chief of Station, JHWAVE

Deputy Chief, WH (Special Affairs)

TYPIC/AMWORLD-Identity

RKF8: A. UFGA 16512, 15 June 1964
B. DIR 31528

1.  Chief, WH requests that an investigation of the truth of some of the allegations rade in Ref à report be held in abeyance pending determination whether Subject in fact has decided to leave PEPRIMS for Nicaragua.

2.  Headquarters continues to be interested in additional data regarding the house in the WAVE area which AMBIDDY-1 intends to purchase in the name of Nilo Messer.

3.  If it should turn out that the conditions described in Ref report are not drastically remedied and continue to pose a festering threat to the security of ANWORLD, your station may have to be requested to investigate. In the meanwhile, we are hopeful that Subject's removal from the WAVE area will serve to attenuate this bad situation.

4.  Thanks to def a report, we were able (without going into too such sordid detail) to put AMBIDUY-1 on notice that we view his association with Subject in the WAVE area as a potential threat to ANWORLD' and EUBARK's security and that the political scandal potential of the existing situation is equally formidable. We consequently fell in with AMBIDDY-1's suggestion, made during the latest reeting in Panama City, that he rove the center of his illicit affair to Manngua where it would be easier to contain unpleasant repercussions than in the WAVE area. We urged AMBIDDY-1, and he promised to hood our advice, that ne dot permit subject to take along to Ficaragua members of her present entourage, singling out Identity O of Ref A as a particular cate in point.

5.  It should be stressed that AMBIDDY-1 is unwavering in his (real ar feigned) conviction that Subject is pure as driven snow and badly maligned and that he has a ready explanation for every "rmor." It would have been unvise to attempt coercing him into discontinuing his affair with Subject, and most likely he would not have yielded to any prekoures. Hence, we had no choice but to settle for the pro- poved nove to Nicaragua which represents a palliative at best.

Distribution!..
4- 000, JHAVE

WR/BA/SO/HH
File: PADRON 201
AMBIDUY-1 201
Lucia Cano 201

Kenneth H. Philbrock
9208 3963
ge June 1804

SECRET/RTE/ZED

16-134-27/3
WH/SA/BO/HH HDHecksher bh

DC/WH/BA
in

---

14-00000

SECHET/REBA

UKTER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO UFOV 3063, dated 29 Juло 04

Identity - Adelaida PiDECH y Crea

DESLISITIZED

يد الالمانية

---

14-00000

SECRET

29 June 1964

Debriefing of Russell H. Sambora in Wash., D.C. 16 June 1964

SUBJECT: DMJK Engineers

Banbora reported he met with AMBIDDY/1 at the Miami airport on 5 June 1964 for a brief discussion of organizational changes. After their talk, A/l requested Sambora accompany him to the airport hotel to act as interpretor with an American engineer (possibly DMJM). Sambora did not recall the name of the engineer but that the engineer had stated the airstrip in Nicaragua would cost somewhere in the vicinity of a million dollars. According to Sambora, A/1 simply listened to the proposal and said he would take the matter under advisement.

File: DMJM
Sambora
AMEIDDY/1

Raul J. Hernandes
TR/BA/80/HH

L

SECRET

溫
」

---

14-00000

SCOOCT
OLUNT
A-1

ANFORLD Meeting in Miani, 28 June 1964

SUBJECT: Photographs of Adolaida Padron

1.  During a lull in the meeting I took AMBIDDY-1 naide (as instructed) and told him it would be best for all concerned to take Adelaida out of POPRINE as ho had suggested. I mentioned to him there is a growing number of reports en Adelaida finding their way to Vashington, making it increasingly difficult for us to protect his rear.

2.  I then casually mentioned to him that we had received come obscene photographs which have caused us to do some fast talking with "some people in Washington" that are beginning to have some sisgivings about AMRIDOT-1 (actually this story is notional).

3.  I noticed the remark concerning the photographs uport ANBIDDY-1. "Do you mean immoral pictures, Kartin?" AMRIDDY-1 inquired. I nodded and to avoid his asking further questions about the pictures, I reminded him of Die promise that Lucia Cano, Natacha d'Angelo (AMBIDDY-1. denied knowing her) and Aida Peres Pozo would not follow Adelaida to Nicaragua.

4.  Daring the rest of the meeting AMBIDDY-1 appeared to be somewhat dejected and preoccupied. It is the opinion of the Co's attending the meeting that this was attributed to the rezarks made concerning the existence of these photographs.

5.  in the necting was about to end, AMBIDDY-1 asked Dogen, "ומן מסע מפy have some seral pictures of Kirting" Again I said "You." These photographs had come into our possession plus much more

SECRET

Excluded from ente
Bond, reding and

---

14-00000

2

information that we had not divulged to him. AMBIDDY-1 then inquired if he could see the photographs. I replied that it was our feeling that it would serve no useful purpose other than to satisfy his own curiosity. Inasmuch as he had promised to take Adelaide out of the country, there was no sense in rubbing salt into the wound. Furthermore, we did not wish to reveal our sources to AMBIDDY-1. Lastly, both he and I know that photographs could be.. fabricated and we did not want to be falsely accused of doing just this. AMBIDDY-1 again asked that I inform BECKHOFF that he is interested in seeing the pictures. In order to drop the entire subject, I promised AMBIDDY-1 I would pass the message to BECKHOFF.

6. BECKHOFF believes that this (notional) intervention Jarred ANBIDDY-1 out of his complacent assumption that we lack substantial information to back up our claim that Adelaida's immoralities are more than unprovable rumors. Also, hopefully, he may now have been put on guard and nay take adequate precautions against blackmail of himself er Adelaida which we consider a major threat to the security of ANWORLD. If in future meetings AMBIDDY-1 should revert to the existence of these photographs, it may be best to state that they were promptly destroyed but that their also being in the possession of potential blackmailers can never be ruled out. ANBIDDY-1 should be reminded of his assurance to alert us immediately if such blackmail attempts are made since he may need our help in varding them off. He has our assurance that we would not use the cropping up of such difficulties to remind him of his failure to heed our varaings.

File:
A-1
Adelaida Padron
Aida Pono
Lucia Cane

Raul J. Hernandes
WE/SA/CO/H

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECREL

ANWORLD Moeting in Miami, 28 June 1964

BUBJECT: AMBIDDY-1's Dream House and Personal Finances

1.  Without impugning AMBIDDY-1's right to purchase a home we advised him that many derogatery roports have reached our ears concerning his purchase of a home and for this reason only we wanted to sot the record straight and thereby be in a better position to combat malicious rumors. A-l said he understood and it was evident A-1 did not take it (the inquiry) as a personal affront. During a break in the meeting A-1 wont home to obtain the Recessary data on the house. Within a few hours A-1 returned with the information plus a blueprint of the house.

8.  A-1 stated the only house he owns in the one in which he and Adelaida are now residêng. This house is located at 1370 N. 8. 85 Street, Miami, Florida. The original downpayment was 86,500. The monthly payment on the house is $330. The funds for the downpayment vore obtained from:

6.  His own personal bank account ($4,000).

Adelaida contributed money she had received fren an automobile accident ($1,000)..

6.  The balance was borrowed from Sinto Mesa (81,800),

A- added that the money borrowed from Adelaida and Nees was paid back to them. According to A-1 the house is valued at $38.000. A-1 was asked why the houre WES net registered in iis name, A-1 replied this was done to prevent rumors from starting as to where he had gotten the money. For this reason the house is regzoterod in the name of Antonio Bana (A-1's bodyguard). As soon as Adelaida departs for Nicaragua, A-1 intends to lease the house to fans for $130 a month.

SECRE

---

14-00000

L

SEC

':

3.  Without being asked A-1 stated he wanted to clarify his financial situation since his return fron prison. A-1 reported he has earned $4,500 from the sale of Marchas de Guerra y Cantos de Presidio; from the sale of the book Bay of Pigs he has so far earned $4,300 in royalties of which $1,000 has been sent to the underground in Cuba. His personal bank account at present totals $1,700. A-1 also maintains he has no other bank account in any other country.

4.  We again mentioned to A-1 that our sale purpose vas to bear the facts from him to prevent the waggling of idle tongnes..

AMBIDDY-1 - 201
Adelaida - 201
Antonio Sana - 201

SECRET

Raul J. Hernandes
VE/SA/BQ/H

---

14-00000

6407

MRR

Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria
2212 Ν. Ε. 3 COURT
ΜΙΑΜΙ, 37, FLORIDA

PLAN 10 THE HOUSE

MAIN
ROOM
CLOSET
CLUSET

DINNING ROOM.
ROOM

KITCHEN

LIVING ROOM
CLOSET
BRIM

OFFICE

WALL

CLOSED

FR 1-6408

BATH
CLOSET
ROOM
UTILITY
NOOM

GARAGE

---

14-00000

TRANSLATION

SECHEL

1. Address: 1270 N. E. 85 Street, Miami, Florida.
The downpayment for the house was $6,500. Monthly
payments which have to be madeper month, $230.

2. Where did I get the money?
نو
a. From the book Bay of Pigs I have earned
$4,300 of which I have to doduct $1,000 I sent to
the underground; thereby leaving a balance of $3,300.

b. From the sale of Marchas de Guerra y Cantos
de Presidio, $4,500.

6.  This gave no the sume of $4,500 plus $4,300
giving me a total of $8,800.

d.  At the time of buying the house: $4,000
from my own bank account, $1,000 from Adelaida, an
automobile accident from which she received $1,400
and $1,500 loaned to me by Sixto Mesa. Tito Mesa
and Adelaida's money I have paid back to them.

e. I have remaining in the bank $2,300 ninus
$600 which I have spent on other tings leaving, ne
a total of $1,700. The house is not under ny name
but in Antonio Sans's name.

8.  The house is valued at $5,000.

SECRET

CROUP 1
auto

---

14-00000

26 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation between AMBIDDY-1
and Martin Ferrer
DATE : 26 June at 1130 hours

I telephoned AMBIDDY-1 at his home and informed
him that we (Carl, Dick and I) would be meeting with
him on Sunday. We would need the following things
at this meeting:

a.  A complete up-to-date roster of the personnel in the organization as they are re-shuffled.

b.  Return of all insurance forms which are no longer applicable.

c.  To at least have a formulated idea as to what their operational plans will be for July and and any requests for data which Carl will have to obtain.

Raul J. Hernande
Raul J. Hernandes
WH/SA/80/HH

File:
AMBIDDY-1-201
Conversations

Above ennvertatle... conducted
in preamenged Apeuently
changed privety srode

SECRET

dratis

---

14-00000

CITE DIR 

TRANS TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD

REF: WAVE 0176 (IN 94619)

ON 24 JUNE AT NEW ORLEANS NEET ING AMBIDDY-1 AGREED IT BEST

IN INTEREST ALL CONCERNED (1.E. AMWORLD, KUBARK, AMBIDDY-1 AND

SUBJECT REF) 1F SUBJECT MOVES RESIDENCE TO MANAGUA, SINCE THIS

IDEA ORIGINALLY BROACHED IN PAJAMA BY AMBIDDY-1 HIMSELF, HOS

RIP SIMPLY APPLAUDED IT. IN THIS LIGHT REQUEST WAVE ADVISE

ODURGE TO GIVE FAVORABLE CONSIDERATION TO SUBJECT'S RENEWED APPLI-

CATION FOR FORM I 512. SINCE ODURGE PLAYED MAJOR ROLE ASSISTING

KUBARK IN VERIFICATION OF RUMORS ABOUT SUBJECT'S PAST, WAS SHOULD

FREE ADVISE APPROPRIATE LEVEL ODURGE WHY IT NOW CONSIDERED

INTERPOSE NO OBSTACLES 17 SUBJECT DESIRES LEAVE PBPRIRE,

OF COURSE WE CANNOT PROVIDE ASSURANCE SUBJECT DEPARTING FOR GOOD.

REND OF MESSAGE

WAVE will request ODURGR delay Issuance I-512.

BRUCE B. CHEEVER

VIL/BECURITY

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE TE PROTOTYΙΑ

المالكون

---

14-00000

TO
FROM
• DIRECTOR
• JMWAVE
A:TION, DC/WH/SA 3
• DDP, VR
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
9 SECRET
ROUTING
3
INT

POLICY
Artima 201

1

51
65 AR
EOB BITS LOG CA
CI
SI BF HH

SEC NS
• DOP
SECRET 2415487
DIR CITE WAVE 8396

Bano 201
Quintero 201
TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
2419641
1. 22 JUNE AMYUM/19 HAD MEETING WITH AMJAVA/4 AND ANBIDDY/1
AT LATTER'S REQUEST TO RESOLVE LEADERSHIP CRISIS WITHIN AMYUM
WHICH HAD POTENTIALLY SERIOUS IMPLICATIONS FOR AN WORLD. A/I
ADMITTED HAVING CONTROL PROBLEMS IN CAMPS AND SAID HE FINALLY
UNDERSTOOD WHAT A/19 HAD BEEN COMPLAINING ABOUT. AS RESULT
DISCUSSION A/19 BELIEVES A/1 CONVINCED A/19 NOT ATTEMPTING USUR
HIS POSITION IN AMYUM AND WILL PERMIT A/19 ASSUME REAL CONTROL
OVER ACTIVITIES IN PBPRIME (INCLUDING AUTHORITY OVER INTE AND PROP
ACTIVITIES), IN RETURN 19 TO USE HIS GOOD OFFICES RESOLVE PER-
SONNEL PROBLEMS IN CAMPS.

2. ACCORDING A/19 RECENT ANALYSIS, WHICH BEING FORWARDED HOS,
BASIC PROBLEM IS GROWING BELIEF AMONG AMYUM ACTIVISTS AND
INTELLIGENCIA THAT A/I USING THEM FOR PERSONAL AMBITIONS AND THAT
EXHIBITING TOTALITARIAN LEANINGS WHICH UNACCEPTABLE ANYUN.
SUBSTITUTE ONE FENOMEN C
1. IN EFFORT CAPTURE CONTROL OF ORGANIZATION FOR SELF
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED
:

L

---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
HAS DONE FOLLOWING:

A. IGNORED BEST QUALIFIED MEN HEAD UP MILITARY ACTIVITIES IN
FAVOR THOSE WHO LACK CONFIDENCE AMYUM RANK AND FILE BUT WHO SUPPORT
HIM WITHOUT QUESTION TO KEEP JOB.

B. PERMITTED MILITARY AND PROPAGANDA FIELD BE DOM IN ATED
BY BATISTIANO ELEMENTS WHICH CANNOT EFFECTIVELY DEAL WITH PBRUMEN
ARMY OR MILITIA.

C. ALLOWED SECURITY SECTION BECOME GESTAPO WHICH INTIMIDATES
LOYAL AMYUMS WHO NOT UNCONDITIONAL SUPPORTERS A/1, CONTRIBUTING
TO AIR INTRIGUE AND INTERNAL CONSPIRACY WHICH SAPS STRENGTH OF
MILITARY PHASE, AND PLAYED PERSONAL ENTOURAGE AGAINST PARTY CADRE
IN ORDER KEEP CONTROL.
G

4. ACCORDINAA19 AMYUM LEADERSHIP WANTS A/I AGREE TO SHARING
POLITICAL DECISION MAKING AND SELECTION KEY PERSONNEL WITH AMYUM
DIRECTORATE MUTUALLY AGREED UPON. FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND OPS
PLANNING NOT INCLUDED IN THIS AND ONCE DECISION MADE ORGANIZATION
TO BACK A/L DECISION WITHOUT QUESTION. IF THIS NOT DONE A/19
SAYS IT POSSIBLE LEADERSHIP MAY ATTEMPT DISASSOCIATE SELF FROM
ANWORLD IN ORDER PRESERVE IDEOLOGICAL PURITY REGARDLESS EFFECT
ON AMWORLD.

S.  DIRECTORATE IDEA WOULD NOT BE ACCEPTABLE TO A/L ACCORDINAA19.  WAVE C/O SUGGESTED THAT BRINGING OTHER ELEMENTS INTO DECISION
MAKING MACHINERY WOULD ONLY RESULT HORE PROBLEMS AND SUGGESTED
THAT PERMITTING A/4 AND A18 EFFECTIVELY EXERCISE REPROTIVE
OFFICES SHOULD PROVIDE AMWORLD WITH HATISFACTORY BALANCE CENTRAL-
IZED CONTROL FOR EFFICIENCY, AND DIVERSITY AS GUARD AGAINST FEARS
CREATING ONE MAN DICTATORSHIP.

SECRET

---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
76. IT GUERTLER OPINION A/1 SHOULD NOT BE ENCOURAGED ATTEMPT
D SO IT ALONE. FROM LONG RANGE VIEWPOINT BELIEVE IT NECESSARY
RECOGNIZE REAL POLITICAL MOTIVATION MANY AMWORLDERS AND FACT
THEY WITH PROJECT AS AMYUMS, NOT AS FOLLOWERS A/1. WHILE A/1
PROBABLY ABLE ATTRACT ENOUGH POLITICAL ACTIVISTS CONTINUE COMMANDO
AND SAB OPS SEVERAL KEY AMWORLDERS INCLUDING AMSALON/1, AMYUM/29,
AMHINT/27 AS WELL AS REBEL ARMY TYPES WOULD LEAVE IF A/I BROKE
WITH AMYUM FOR POLITICAL REASONS.
SECRET

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

ANWORLD Meeting in New Orleans, 24 June 1964

SUBJECT: ANYUM-19 or Nice Guys Finish last

1.  HQS conclusion that AMWORLD interests would best be served by not opposing the termination of liaison contacts with ANYUM-19 was prompted by some of the following considerations:

a.  AMBIDDY-l's obvious displeasure with the existing relationship, as evidenced by his rather pointed ob- servations about the corrupting effects of such contacts en subordinate levels. The fact that such contacts provide KUBARK with a certain insight into those AMWORLD affairs which AMBIDDY-1 prefers to keep secret is obviously a factor, but not an overriding one, What really worries AMBIDDY-1 is--he claims--that factionalisa draws suste- sance from working level liaison between Cubans and Americans except in those rare instances where the loyalty of the Cuban representative is beyond cavil.

.  ANBIDDY-1's lack of confidence in AHYUM-19's loyalty. Hos position has been all along that AMBIDDY-1 is the sole judge of who among his co-workora merit trust and who doesn't. To dispute his judgment would entangle KUBARK into intra-AMWORLD power politics with no adequate basis for htelligent judesint. Either we reserve ourselves the right of co-determination on all personnel action or on none. ANWORLD groundrules are unambiguous on that score. We do not become involved except in those instances where our opinions are specifically elicited, as in the field of background checks which only by inference bear upon the issue of loyalty to AMBIDDY-1. In sum, once AMBIDDY-1 withdraws his confidence from a co-worker we have no log to stand on in persisting that we have the right to consider that particular individual cur chosen instrument in the field of liaison.

4.  ANTUM-19's dual role as a ranking functionary of ANDORLD and the Number Two Man in AMYUM. Bince we have reason for believing that a dichotomy has been opening up between ANWORLD and AMYUN's old guard (to

SECRET

dad'sirigation

---

14-00000

-2-

which AMYUM-19 belongs), liaison with AMWORLD conducted through AMYUM-19 ipso facto involves KUBARK in factional strife. We recall that some of the major troubles be- setting the action mechanism prior Playa Giron stemmed from the interference of political commissars. Without derogating from the importance of the ideological component in the struggle against ANTHUO, in any showdowe between the military command and the political functionary corps, it behooves us to range KUBARK alongside the former unless the points at issue manifestly implicate PBPRIME security. Under AMWORLD groundrules KUBARK supports AMBIDDY-1 as the commander of an unconventional varfare instrument, not an exile organization, let alone the ideology and aspirations which animate it.

d. The ANYUM opposition group represented by ANDUM-19 clearly desires a share in the decision-making process which KUBARK has entrusted to AMBIDDY-1. While they pay lip service to the principle of non-interference in purely military affairs, in the final analysis it would be impossible to keep the two aspects apart. Any con- cessions on KUBARK's part to the pretensions of the ANTUM opposition would confront KUBARK with intangibles in the form of occult pressures brought to bear upon AMBIDDY-1 whose impact we could not possibly gauge or control.

e. ANTUM dissidence flourishes in the WAVE area, whereas ANWORLD's center of gravity rests in Central America. Unless AMBIDDY-1's stewardship is unimpeded by ANTUM factionalism, AMWORLD's performance is bound to suffer since AMBIDDY-1's preoccupations will always retain e focus on his WAVE area backyard.

f. The impression that ANWORLD may be disintegrating is fed by intel which essentially reflects WAVE area backstage maneuverings in the political sphere, not the situation in the campe about which we are, as a matter ef fact, relatively uninformed. By striving to insulate ANWORLD against the vagaries of WAVE area bickering and strife, the ANWORLD poture is bound to move into clearer foous and any shortcomings for which AMBIDDY-1 should be called to aggouns can no longer be blamed upon the debilitating effects of AMYUM intrigue and most important--cannot possibly be blamed upon KUBARK once its links with ANTUM-18 have been severed..

SECRET

ドート

---

14-00000

SECRET

-3-

g. An emasculated political apparatus in the WAVE area will deprive AMBIDDY-1 of all excuse to divide his time between Central America (where he belongs) and the WAVE area.

h. The tawdry aftermath of the ZENON II raid can justly be blamed if not on AMYUM, at least on AMBIDDY-1's political representation in the WAVE area. With that representation effectively eliminated, one of the main sources of ODYOKE discomfiture will have been effectively dislocated. Impending changes should at least eliminate the AMYUM press and intel sections.

i. Should there be further unpleasantness in the WAVE area, KUBARK will, once contacts with AMYUM-19 have ceased, have a base for plausible denial of responsibility for not preventing it.

j. If we are to believe certain not altogether unbiasfed reports, AMBIDDY-1, through his mistress Adelaida PADRON, has become linked with the exile demi- honde which moves on the fringes of common crine and which is closely intertwined with the remnents of Batista's regine. While AMYUM, and particularly AMYUM-19, may to some extent serve to counteract and slow down these trends, they are obviously unable to halt them entirely. Hence, what little benefit we could have derived from a tie-in between AMYUM and ANWORLD has not been forthcoming... Short of an enduring political compromise between con- flicting viewpoints, which we don't consider within the realm of practical politics, any solution which keeps AMBIDDY-1 out of the WAVE area and close to his command post, serves ANWORLD and hence KUBARK interests.

k. ANWORLD in WAVE area had become a breeding ground for rumors and beyond reasonable doubt a valuable source of classified information for