14-00000
104-10161-10097 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ABLE SEC DISSEM BY ___ PER ___ TOTAL CUTIE ___ SECRET ___ REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
ERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
STAFF
DVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED BY AT
1 4
CTION UNIT _ RF FILE VR VR. IP/AN, C14, Cesa,SECUR 3 2 5
NFO 3 6
EUA8 OGC 2, COMMOS, ODO, DOA
ACTION #

T 631054 E1A355 PAGE 21 IN 805199
TOR:261252Z JAN 76 MADR 29824

SECRET 261330Z JAN 76 STAFF
15-2
CITE MADRID 29824
15-15
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, LISBON
MSPLASH

1. MORNING 25 JAN KALBING RECEIVED PHONE CALL AT
HOME FROM YOUNG MAN WHO SAID HE CHRIS PHILLIPS, SON OF DAVE
PHILLIPS. HE SAID HE ON VACATION AND REQUESTED INFO ON WHAT
TO SEE AND DO IN MADRID AREA. ALSO ASKED IF POLITICAL SITUATION

IN PORTUGAL SUCH THAT TRAVEL THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM. [KAL-
BING WAS ON WAY TO MEETING AND ASKED THAT HE CALL BACK LATER.
HE DID, AND SAID HE TRAVELING TO LISBON THAT NIGHT AND WOULD
RETURN MADRID LATER IN WEEK. HE SAID HE DID NOT HAVE ADDRESS
IN MADRID AT MOMENT AND WOULD CALL KALBING AGAIN UPON RETURN
TO MADRID.

2, WE SOMEWHAT SUSPICIOUS THIS CALL SINCE KALBING DOES
NOT KNOW CHRIS PHILLIPS, ALTHOUGH IT PUSSIBLE HIS FATHER GAVE

HIM KALBING'S NAME AS SOMEONE TO HELP HIM WITH TOURIST QUES-
TIONS. ALSO DOUBT THAT PHILLIPS WOULD HAVE CALLED BACK IF HE
ONLY PROBING FOR LOCATION OF CIA PERSONNEL, SINCE FIRST CALL
WOULD HAVE CONFIRMED WHAT HE WANTED KNOW. CHECK WITH MARINE

SECRET
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

14-00000

ABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES KJN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
DVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT STAFF
CTION UNIT RF. FILE VR 1 4
2 5
3 6
ACTION #

T 631654 EIA355 PAGE 02-02 IN 805199
15-2
TOR:261252Z JAN 76 MADR 29824

GUARD REVEALED THAT SOMEONE HAD CALLED EMBASSY MORNING 25 JAN
ASKING FOR KALBING'S HOME PHONE. MARINE GUARD FURNISHED THE
NUMBER, ALTHOUGH RECENT EMBASSY INSTRUCTION IS NOT TO GIVE OUT
SUCH NUMBERS BUT ASK CALLER FOR HIS NUMBER AND SAY PERSON WILL
GET IN TOUCH WITH HIM.

3. CAN HQS CONFIRM THAT CHRIS PHILLIPS TRAVELING IN
IBERIA AND THAT DAVE PHILLIPS GAVE HIM NAMES OF PEOPLE
TO CALL ON THERE?
15-15
4. LISBON PHILLIPS MAY ALSO CALL ON PERSONS YOUR
STATION WHO KNOWN TO DAVE PHILLIPS.

5. FILE: DEFER. E2 IMPDET

SECRET
