1104-10079-10281
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CASSIFIED INTERNAL CONFIDENTIAL X SECRET
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM: EXTENSION NO.
IP/CFS 1 B 4003 6740 DATE

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. HM 788 Our records indicate that the
attached document is classified
HOLMES RUSSELL into a file currently charged to
your/your office.
2. CI/EXO Permanent Temporary X
3. Please file this document in the
201 Subject
4. Project file since it may
be of immediate value. Destroy this
coversheet after material is filed.
5.
If the file is no longer held by
6. your office, please indicate its
present location so we may correct
7. the charge.

If you do not know the location
8. of the file, please return this
coversheet together with the
attached material and fill in the
9. following:

Check if unable to locate / /
10.
Suggest possible location:
11.
Signature:
12.
Office designation:
13.
14.
15.
12027
Tube DT-6
CL BY: 062147
IP/CFS

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS X SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 EDITIONS USE ONLY
OP-136

SECRET
1993.07.19.14:50:37:460280

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
ACF
0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
0
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF: AF9 INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME GROUP
030015Z
26-1
TPE
0
MRO
0
DCI
0
CITE
DIRECTOR
PAGE
OF
PAGES

1
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
937078
NO INDEX
RETURN TO PER
PFILES #
DISSEM BY: 45

TO: BRUSSELS INFO PRETORIA, DAR ES SALAAM Y
UNINTEL SESCYTHE TOPHONE Y
REFS: A- OBBA-35455 DATED 19 AUGUST 1976 (BEING POUCHED PRETORIA)
B. DIRECTOR 9362216 Y
1. HQS READ WITH INTEREST REF A REPORT BY TOPHONE/1 ON HIS
CONTACTS WITH SOUTH AFRICAN ANC AND PAC REPRESENTATIVES IN DAR ES
SALAAM. IN CONNECTION WITH REF B PROGRAM, HQS WOULD APPRECIATE
TOPHONE/1 MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH SUBJECTS REF A CP:K. LEBALLOS,
DAVID SIBEKO AND VUZ MAKE OF PAC AND MZIMKULU AMBROSE MAKIWANE OF
ANCY BY CORRESPONDENCE, TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ON PLANS AND ACTIVI-
TIES OF THEIR RESPECTIVE ORGANIZATIONS, AND LEADS AND INTRODUCTION
TO EUROPEAN BASED REPRESENTATIVES.
2. HQS WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE TOPHONE/1 EXPLOITING ANY EXISTING
CONTACTS OR ACCESS TO EUROPEAN BASED REPS OF ANC PAC, SASM OR SASO
WITH VIEW TOWARD OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE AND ASSESSMENT DATA ON
PERSONALITIES FOR POSSIBLE RECRUITMENT Y

DATE: 26 OCTOBER 1976
ORIG: L. SANDS:RG
UNIT: AF/ES/S
EXT: 1949
RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

SECRET
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 12027
1993.07.19.14:50:37:460280
