14-00000
104-10177-10121
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSCIFIED  CONFIDENTIAL  20 SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET  4 91954

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry

FROM:   FILE NO. HCSA-825
  FI/ANALYSIS

TO ROOM DATE OFFICER'S DATE COMMENTS
NO REC'D FWD'D INITIALS
1. cuartes
WH Eye 15 15 4 fo
2.
Brl 1571154 to COPY DETAILED - logged

3. Manpool 15182 12 nfe
4.
Pozzaki
5.
Hillegly 17. FER AKG Copy detached
6.
Holinde
7. Aomin/Lippin 23:20 24.
8.
9. Cwif qck
10. 201-088764
11. 7576
63 12:00
ABSTRACT INDEX
12.
13. 1409 DATE 10 FEB 1954 #9
14. L 201-0887647
15 RI/FI

FORM NO. SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED
1 NOV 53
51-10
JUN 1957
PREVIOUS EDITHONS MAY BE USED
16--61156-1 - 3. u.s. covEENENT PRINTING OFFICE
(40)

14-00000
TO AIR
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

Chier, MID

CLASSIFICATION COPY
DATE: 4 February 1954

FROM: Chief of Mission, Santiago

SUBJECT: GENERAL- KUGOWN Operational
SPECIFIC- Termination of Paul D. LANGEVIN

HER: SAGO 903 dated 10 October 1953

1. Attached are a) statement of termination signed by subject
and b) agent's service record. Submision of these items
has been delayed pending receipt of Field Instruction 236-1.
Since this instruction has not been received we are submitting
the enclosures to close the record on this case.
2. Paul D. LANGEVIN may be used for recruiting tasks before his
permanent departure from Chile in April 1954. His security
is not questioned and he has expressed a willingness to per-
form such tasks.

3. He also requests arrangements for the payment of income tax
on his earnings during 1953. This matter will be handled
by cable in view of time element.

4. The following explains the timing of LANGEVIN's termination:
he had been advised that he would be terminated one month
after all advances had been liquidaten. This would have
• been 30 September 1953. This ante was also chosen since
it was expected that COALIUS would take over FURIOS0 "C"
at about that time. COKONTUS did take over the project.
early in October. However, LANG VIN dia no work during the
month of September for which he would be entitled to pay-
ment, althoum he presumably was available for duty. The
last payment of 357.44 for the Leriod 1 through 31 August
195 was in addition to the liquidation or his avances
although it did not cover a full month fror the cate of
such liquidat on which must have occuried sometime in August.
LANGEVIN accepted this as the ist payment coming to him số
there did not seem to be any vointi forcing another $500
on him foi a period quiing which he của nó WORK

Attachments
2 as tes

2 February 1951
FORM NO.
MAR1949 51-28 A
CLASSIFICATION

201-088764
RI COPY
150
14-00000

AGENT SAIC GOD

1. AGENT CRYPTORY GA PSEUDONY Paul D. Langevin (FUL INATOA-1)

2. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION "URTOSO "C" (PEGROVEL)

3. AGENT RECRUITED PY Jerome C. Dunbar DATE about "August 1950
(Contract signed 25 January 1952)

4. CAPACITY IN WHICH AGENT SERVED Contract agent

5. RATE OF PAY $500 per month

6. OTHER COMMITMENTS See contract dated 25 January 1952

7. AGENT DISMISSED BY James G. Collett DATE 31 August 1953
8. REASON FOR DISMISSAL Loan to subject liquidatea. No further
need for him since FAISO "C" taken over by Martin J. CORINTUS
9. SECURITY RISKS Agent knows various present and past staff
officers Had some headcuarters training. Loyalty unquestioned.
IS THE AGENT RECOMMENDED FOR REUSE Only in special circumstances
for minor tasks such as cutout work or recruiting...

11. BANNER OF DISMISSAL Agent acvised at least sixty days in
advance that his services would be term nated as soon as financial
oblication to KUBANK liquidated.

12. LETTER OF TEIK NATION SIGNED Yes
MIOVIE -CLACI

ATT#ITO MCSA 225
201-028769

14-00000

1 October 1953

1. The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of US$357.44
payed to his bank account during September 1953 and agrees
that with this payment all financial obligations to him
under his contract dated 25 June 1952 have been liquidated.

2. The undersigned further acknowledges that information of
a security nature received by reason of his association
with the organization spall never be revealed to unauthor-
ised persons under any circumstances.

ATT #2 TO HCSA 825
ACSA2
201-088-764
14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESΘΑΟΣ
ROUTING
DATE: 4 FEB 54 SECRET G
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM: SANTIAGO
ACTION: WH 4

INFO : FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC, PP 2, FI/RI 2

TO: DIR SAGO 005 (IN 15654)
RE: DIR 36856 (ουτ 68009)
21367 4 FEB 51 ROUTINE
CITE: SSAGO

PSYCH

1. LANGEVIN IN SAGO, DEPARTING WITH FAMILY FOR NEW YORK
VIA EUROPE ON 15 APRIL 54. TENTATIVELY PLANS TO RESIDE IN LOS
ANGELES.

2. LANGEVIN CURRENTLY ENGAGED IN RECRUITING TASK AS EX-
PLAINED IN HOSA 526 DATED 4 FEBRUARY. VE PREFER THIS TASK NOT
BE INTERRUPTED FOR TWO MONTHS. FURTHERMORE THIS TASK MIGHT
GLOW HIM FOR USE ELSERKERE.

END OF MESSAGE
201-088764
CS COPY
SECRET ABSTRACT INDEX
DATE 17 FEB 1954
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS AUSSAGE. 967
201-088764

14-00000

ORIG: J.W.ISN CLASSIFIED MUSSAGE
UNIT: VE/BR.I SECURITY
EXT: 3934
DATE: 3 FEBRUARY 1954
TO : SR. REP. SARTTAGO
DIRECTOR, CIA
FROM:
DIRUCTOR, CIA

CONF: WH 14

INFO: FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC,/FI/RI 2

AIR. 24856 (OUT 68009) 20502 3 FEB 54 ROFIJIR

TO: SSAGO CITE: DIR

1. LANGEVIN BEING CONTEMPLATED CEMPORARY OPERATIONAL USE
SPECIAL PROJEC CUTSIDE YOUR AREA.

2. MAKE EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE HIS WEEREABCUTS. INFORM HES.

EID OF MESSAGE
201-088764

DATE FEB 1994
RAFORD W. FERGERT
C/WE/ER.I

201-088764
3 FEBRUARY 1954
RELEASING OFFICER CS COPY COORDINATING OFFICER'S AUTHENTICATING.OFFICER

SECRET
IIS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Copy No.

14-00000
FORM NO
NOV 1951 35--85
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ROUTING
CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY 1
IN 26965 2
SECURITY INFORMATION 3
4
TO: DIACTOR, MA 5
6
FROM: ST REP SANTIACO S460 ROUTINE 04007 17 OCT 53
ACTION: W54
INFORMATION: FI/OPS, FI/STC, FIJRI 2
SPO TC: DIE CITE: SSAGO

LICEVIN
REF: DIR 23280 (OUT 91507)

10 LANCEVIN TERMINATED 31 AUGUST 53. DISPATCH EXPLATINING CHANGE
FOLLOPS

END OF MESSAGE
201-088764

16-5292-1 SECURITY INFORMATION
2910153
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE COPY NO.
20027
201-088764

14-00000
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "to" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn
across sheet and each comment bered to correspond with the number in the "To" column. Each officer should initial
Check mark insufficient betare further rout MICROFILMED ing Sheet should be returned to
FROM: JUN 171964 TCS/PRG
TCS/PRG/5WH/
DOX MICRO SER 10 march 50
TO ROOM DATE OFFICER'S DATE COMMENTS
NO RECD FWDD INITIALS
Jau
nwc MAR 11950 Bac
Miss Claypool 1:40717 mfe Ti chicked inf. mar.
50-3-12-
Rilmis nonrecord archives ix than.
assigned Phantom I
1-CS-A-967
Rilps
12.
13. R./Fi/SP mt
14.
15. 201-33432

FORM NO. SECRET
APR 1949
51.10
14-00000
PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

1662 15877
225/PRO/5

MICROFILMED
Instruction: 1. Write clearly. JUN 1 10364
Answer all questions completely. If que
2. If "not apply, write "not applicable"
3. Attach extra pages in additional spEPOC MICRO. SER

1. Full Name David Atlee
First Middle Last

2. Name in native script

3. Name at birth (if different from 1.) (not applicable)

4. Aliases, nicknames, legal changes (State briefly time, reason and
place of use.) in the year 1942 the last name was dropped, for
stage purposes-other actor in same show with same nemen N.Y.

5. Date of birth Oct. 31,1922 2. Place of birth Fert erth, Texas

6. Present citizenship, race if appropriate. U.S. White

7. Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (if different
from 6.)(not ap licable)

8. Present residence (Owner, tenant, sub-terant.) Los Castanos 333,
Viña del bar. Chile Tenant

9. Permanent address (if different from 8. Fort worth, Texas 714 well P. Anderson" Bldg.

10. Present occupation (full title, salary etc.) Publisher and editor of
The South Pacific Fail. No salary

11. Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United States.
(Give date and name in which certificate granted.)

12. Relatives, friends, correspondents in United States. (Explain re-
lationship) Venan klessuhornil, friend, 00 E. 42 St. New York
Erotinamsa see quest
201-88764
201-33432

14-00000

13. Father full name, occupation, present residence, year and place
of birth, nationhiity at birth and subsequent nationalities.
Edwin Tromeseased,exis a at 140, 1.. citizen, mother nationalities.
Last residence in Fort Worth, Texas.

/PRQ/5
14. Mother same information as 13.
Mary Louise Young Philips, executive,, deceased, porn in
Temple Texas absut 1592. 2.3. citizen, no other nationalities.
Last residence in Fort dorth, Teхаз.

15. Wife (or husband) full name, malden name, date and place of birth,
date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent
nationalities, present residence, divorce, annulment. (Give data
TILS.A
net for all previous marriages.) elen Haaronillios, Helen Florence
Haasch, Fort Worth, 1g in 15epsarried June 5,
1245 in Fort worth, Texas, . citizen resent address:
Los Castanos 336Viña del war, Chile. Previously married
to Lt.Com. Joilley, and divorced 1945. (This date
may cosolutely correct.) Subject was previously married
to Joudeorandt, loomington, Ill. and divorced in
Seatercer 1243. Wirs of DAVID ATLEE Phillips (201-88764).
16. Children full names, sex, year and place of birth, nationality
at birth and any subsequent nationalities, présent residence.

Maria Louise Phillips, female, born August, 1949 in
Santiago, Chile. Chilean citizen at birth but registration
at American Consulate in Chile will give her dual citizenship.
Los ustanos 333, Viña del war, Chile.

17. Brothers and sisters Same information as 16.
Edwin Thomas Phillios, Jr. cale, born about 1917 in fort
Worth Texas Citizen ad Neil P. anderson Blog,
Fort Worths
James Young illips, male, born about 1918, Fort Aorth, Texas
4804 Washington. Fort Worth citizen
James Olcott Phillips, male born about 1320 in Fort Worth,
U.S. citizen, address 714 Well P. Anderson alde. Sort Worth.
Texas.
-2-
201 33432

14-00000

18. Relatives in service of any governtent, names and positions held.
(act as Motole)

19. List all official identity papers held with dates, numbers, place of issue
and duration of validity. Carnet of Identity for Foreigners,
No. 3013:27 issued in Chile. Valid indefinitely. Other papers
drivers license, birth certificate, army discharge, etc. but
they are not with me at the time this questionaire is being filled
sut.
20. Religion degree practiced, membership in religious orders
Protestant (Episcopalian). Loderate practive. No relicious orders.

21. Present and past political affiliations
Support vemocratic Party in principle but have no special
Interests or affiliations.

22. Travel outside country of present residence country, dates,
purpose, people and firms visited.
In 1943 and 1945, traveled.
but
tarough africa, Italy, Yugoslavia, Germany, France, stc.
always because of military service. Also traveled extensively
In mexico in 1947 as a tourist.
23. Education school, location, course, degree, dates,
william and Mary, Williamsburg, Vz.crama and English, no degree,
in the year 1940.
xás, English major,
Texas Christian University, Fort Worth,
Texas,
no degree in the year 1941,
24. Languages and dialects (Indicate proficiency as good, fair, poor.
Language and sh Speaked Read Good Understand Good

Language Frence Speak Po Read Good Understand Fair

Language Ferman Speak Poor Read Pan Understand Fair
-3-
20133439

14-00000

25. Military service datre, comery, unit, rank, duty, where
services performed, decorations, when discharged, why. Give
details if ever prisoner of war
Server in 1943
Staff
at the 45th perb prou
Sergeant, artcrer-guaner on 3-24, wedal, pale seart.
Ischarged Jetoper 31, 1954 on points.
Prisoner of Her, Captured b Gerran troons in day 29, 1944 In
Yugoslavia after parachuting from crasning plane. Laken to
Stalag Inft. II in Peland. Later noved to Starrlager Inft.
XIII near Aurenburg, Germany. Liberated by American Forces
about middle of april 1945. Heturned to Camp Lucky Strike in
France.
:.
26. Present and past membership in organizations (professional, social,
political, etc.)
Actor's Equity, Author's Muild, short membership
in Kappa Sigma fratercity at william and karg, 1lliamsburg, Va.

27. Special skills, abilities, hobbies (radio, photography, etc.)
Atheletics, typing, photography, painting writing.

28. Financial status earnings, bank deposits, securities, property
Present business is new, a newspaper and there is no way to
estimate what the profits 11 be, Bank arcount in fort Worth
National Bank, Fort Worth, Texas: Income of about 200 per month
from real estate in Texus. Mostly from royal interest in
oil producing, land,
29.. Employment history type of work, salary, dates, employers, ad-
:
و

dréssés, reasons for leaving. Include employment by any government.
actor, average salary 3100 per per week. (Employer's include
Camp Shows Inc., and Loterstate Inters Pavers, new ework and Austin
Texas respectively.) rom 1941 through 1943. Various stock
companies in New York and New Bigland. (Most work done es
a free lance writer, nowever.)

201-33432
-4-

14-00000

29. (Continuci)

30. Has subject done any writing? Give details including titles of
bocks, articles, publishers, dates. Yes, newspaper work generally
and playwriting specifically. No plays published cut one
Teh Show Job produced. also written under contract for radio.
:
31. List persons living at same address, close associates, (individuals or
groups,) correspondents at home and abroad. No other persons living.
at same address. Close associates include the pritish and
American diplomatic personnel in Santia o and Valparaiso, Chile
Also newspaper man and various friends, many representatives
of f
Foreign concerns in this country."
i
List five character references...
32. List fi
Guy Price, vice President fort worth national bank, Fort Worth
Gilson lake, american Consul. General in Valparaiso, Chile.
Venan Alessandroni, Tawy Lawyer, 60 41 42 st wew York, N.
Williamalden, President, Chamber of Commerce, Fort Worth,
David Trammel, lawjer, Fort Worth National Bank: Bldg. Fort Worth

:
-5-
20133432

14-00000

33. Court record court, date, arrests, charges, punishments,
sentences, acquittals, denazification, etc.

S/PRQ/5.
34. Description (Use American standards of measurement, if possible.)
27 Posture
Good
Age
30 195
Apparent age Weight
6. Feet
Height
Eyes
Weight
Teeth
Hair
Blue , good condition
Blond

Face shape Aular
Complexion fair
Scars nder left eye, very small
St
Build Stocky

Sex Male..

General appearance Mondescript

Prominent features None

Other identifying features one
35. Other miscellaneous biographical data and comments.

Came to Chile in 1943 to attend school. At this time however,
publishing and English language pacer in Valparaiso
In, Valparaiso, Chi
cess to
(at the moment this questionaire is zeing filled out, the
subject is away from his home and office, faces without
papers, and documents: Consequently all answers may not be
assolutely correct so far as dates, are concerned.)

20133432
-6-
FILE NO. 101-887644
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 5
140 CWT/DLD Smewt
15 SEPA
No US Reord abe Destroy,
Kite this topyashested
Branch cops filed andteste!
Kh Indeang check ones
DIRECTOR

FROM HAVANA
ACTION Слн 2
ScScr516082229
CRECJALLSBEOT.
C/C/ROUTINE

DCI, D/DCI, DO/P, COP, C/CIC/FPCB/C
TO DIR INFO IN 25737
RYBAT CITE HAVA 2650

RE: DIR 41815 (OUT 90126 )*

Re: GUSTAVO DE LOS REYES In connection
with contacts with MICHAEL MICHOA DEN

ROUTING INITIAL
RIDZAN
RID/MIS
RIDA
FORM 1389 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
DESTROY

301-88764
US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 18380-465030
(35)
14-00000
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designat should used in the "TO" um. Under each comment a fne should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" cuiunin. Each officer should initial (eck mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: NE NO. TCS-1141
  DATE 241951
TO ROOM DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS
NO REC'D FWD'D INITIALS
1.
om 4 dive 57

2.
Aldo

3.
Ferry set

4.
Pierce

6.
7
10 RECLASSIFIED

RIZAM
RI/MIS

RI/Files

11.

14:

15
FORM NO. 51-10 SECRET
FEB 1950 L-61153-1 US CONDS ABSAT PRINTING OFFICE
14-00000

AIR VIA: SPECIFY A من SEA POUCHI
SECURITY INFORMATION DISPA. NO TCS-A-1741
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
DATE: 28 November 1951

TO : Chief, WHD

FROM : Chief of Station, Santiago
SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational Matters
SPECIFIC ZACACTUS, Chile
REF: Sago-360 par CEX 10-43

1. Pursuant to the verbal statements of Dennis K. COPELAND at the Lima Confer-
ence of certain Station Chiefs, pertaining to ZACACTUS Operations in Chile,
the following suggestions are advanced for Headquarters consideration:

a) Cover for Chile, Official:

The Air Attache, Col. William ROSS, talked at length with General ACKERMAN,
Assistant A-2, AFGS, while attending the Panama Service Attache Conference,
on the question of providing a replacement for the Air Officer who had
originally been scheduled for Santiago Air Attache Office to handle ZACACTUS.
ROSS, who is a very intelligent, capable officer, with excellent intelli-
gence experience, told ACKERMAN that he would appreciate being considered
for this assignment in addition to his regular duties, as he was keenly
interested in this type of endeavor. He was of the opinion that he could
devote as large a share of his time to this work as would any other officer
so assigned to his office. Furthermore, due to the size of his staff,
three officers, he felt he could assign the bulk of his Air duties to his
assistants and concentrate his efforts on ZACACTUS matters, which he thought
were of greater Importance in Chile. General ACKERMAN, according to ROSS,
was not adverse to this proposal but stated he would await contact from
ZACACTUS Headquarters before considering the matter further.

This Station has high regard for ROSS and is of the opinion that he would
apply himself in a very diligent and intelligent männer to the duties of
handling ZACACTUS in Chile. He is fully aware of the necessity for discre-
tion, as he had been briefed on this at the time the former ZACACTUS candi-
date had been considered for the Air Attache Office.

b) Covert field cover: RESTRICTED TO W/chile

FORM NO.
SAR, 40

This Station highly recommends Headquarters consideration of FULMINATER-1
as the principal ZACACTUS operator in Chile on a permanent basis. This
person is well known to this Station and has demonstrated his ability in
handling FULMINATER-2 and the publication of the posters/stickers for the
51-28 A
SECURITY INFORMATION
SECRET-
CLASSIFICATION
Removed from Protect Furioso-c
103
12 3-364/38
22501-5576 (
201-334チュー
14-00000
R
SECURITY WORMATION
SECRET
-2-
TCS-A-1741
:
UN-ECOSOC propaganda effort. His assets are generally as follows:

1) Covers He is publisher and editor of a fairly successful weekly news-
paper in Chil. Although he is at the moment considering the possibility
of selling this newspaper, he has been encouraged to defer such action
for thirty days pending Headquarters' decision on his case. This paper
has its own printing presses and is capable of handling large printing
"orders of all types. This activity could be regulated in such a manner
that it would only require a minimum amount of FULMINATER-1's time and
would provide him with an excellent cover for his ZACACTUS activities.

2) Ability: He is a writer, playwrite, publisher and editor. Those
qualifications plus his initiative, imaginativeness, ingenuity and broad
intellectual background should qualify him for ZACACTUS operations. He,
of course, has an excellent command of Spanish as well as French and
German.

3) Contacts: Due to his professional status in Chile, he is on excellent
personal terms with all other newspaper publishers, correspondents and
editors. He also conducts a radio program and is accordingly well in-
formed in this field and has many radio contacts. In view of the fact
he originally published his newspaper in Valparaiso, he has many contacts
on the coast as well which should be important in this work.

4.) Personality: He is considered exceptional both in appearance and per
sonality and has easily acquired the confidence and friendship of
Chileans and Americans alike. Due to his wide interests, he is con-
sidered very well informed and cultured. His demeanor is always that of
a gentleman, yet he is capable of courageous action as evidenced by his
war experience and his conduct of assignments for this Station as indicated
below.

5) Intelligence experiences He was originally approved operationally to
handle the complex Soviet espionage case of FULMINATER-2. His conduct
of this case was considered excellent, and he displayed resourcefulness,
tact and ability to handle himself in difficult circumstances.

During the LCACTING operations of this Station involving the printing
of the posters, stickers, handbills and the "Communist Pig", this Station
called on FULMINATER-1 to do the job. It will be recalled that Head-
quarters was very pleased with the printing job in this project which
FULMINATER-1 had done. This particular project revealed FULMINATER-1'8
ability to handle ZACACTUS work effectively and with discretion as borne
out by the fact that the local Communists were never able to trace the
origin of this material.

o) Modus operandi:

1) Diplomatic covers It is suggested that ROSS be dosignated as the control
SECRET-
SECURITY INFORMATION 2-88764
-761-33432

14-00000
SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET
-3-
TCS-A-1741

officer for ZACACTUS in Chile and that he maintain the official files,
funds and communications with ZACACTUS Headquarters.

2) ZACACTUS Field Operator: It is suggested that FULMINATER-1 be employed
on a regular State-side salary basis and that he be authorized a small
staff to assist him in the actual handling of all field projects. He
should have one officer assistant in a covert capacity and two stenog-
raphers, all of whom would be in his overt cover office, presumably as
his regular employees.

3) Cut-outs, agents, etc.: FULMINATER-1 should be authorized to develop
such cut-outs, agents, etc. as required to carry out his objectives in
Chile.

2. This Station is of the opinion that with the exception of possibly Mexico and
Venezuela, Chile is one of the most important PW targets in Latin America.
The Communist influence in Chile is unquestionably a serious political factor,
and their propaganda is growing steadily throughout the country with extremely
little if any opposition. The present Communist drive towards nationalization
of the copper industry is gaining adherents daily and should be considered a
potentially serious matter from the standpoint of our reliance on Chilean
copper. Thus, it is the view of this Station that PW work is important in
Chile and that its initiation on a larger scale should not be unduly delayed.
It is also believed that considerable time, effort and money would be saved by
utilising the talent now in Chile, such as ROSS and FULMINATER-1, who already
have their feet on the ground and are ready to start.

3. In the case of ROSS, if Headquarters is interested, it should approach General
ACKERMAN direct in A-2. Regarding FULMINATER-1, a very tentative approach
has been made to sound him out, and he reacted very favorably although no
commitments were made as to salary or exact nature of the work. The moment for
a decision in his case is very opportune, as he is planning to sell his news-
paper and leave Chile for the United States or some other country. Recogniz-
ing the value his paper and presses would have to his cover and his work, be Hub
was asked, as mentioned above, to postpone selling his paper for thirty days.
It is believed that he would be an excellent person for ZACACTUS in Chile and
for future consideration as a Staff Officer. It is not believed that he would
be interested in any salary less than $5,000 per year although again, this
subject has not been discussed with him to date. It is urged, however, that
Headquarters cable this Station as early as practicable if there is any interest
in obtaining FULMINATER-l as proposed above.

:

Dist: 3 Washington Jerome C. Dunbar
2 Files osm

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION 201-88764

・201-33432....
14-00000
ONLY
UCLASSIFIED CONF NTIAL SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TO C Porcar Cactratica, sa sub, d
Dorkins
1. /fr. Schaffer OFFICER S Date
38404
Inthel 10/2/66
COMMENTS (taba sach cooment to show from whom
to whom Drawing or sour cech com
Atticked are two 201's (C
2.
3.
4.
5.
4.
7.
8.
D.
MM/201 E. Nickerson
10.
11:
Criginal routing sheet fled
in 201-10731.
request of Julien Goldber
12
14.
18.
PORES
610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED

to the attention
201
Ers. Roberts of the Chileen fe
nare
Sa reuested that the 201
nd sizce both en
Staff employees. 201-10721 is the
Denity Chief of want 201-891
sta?? emgee currently in
Cre 201 section cay not rol
without prior approval of the E
Liese arm Feing sent to you for
view. The 201's may either re
Petsinad the interestei desk on
pennatimnt chrge or afy concell:
“ છછછછછછ- “ છછ છછ છDA છછછછછ ?????????????????? ?????
ing the non-materie: to the Off
of Fersonnel for retention fres
refile. If the decision 1
male to retain the file on parmanent
charge, please notify BD Locate
24
(hand-written note)
"Jean Nickerson
Fave evärined both 201's, jarity
of those contents is oferation 1.
Doubt anything would be served by
recalling retired ons, distributing
material, re-retiring then. Ple
leave aspis. (Initialed.)
刀?

201-88764

14-00000
40

TO HEADEN N77-180
DISPATCH ΝΟ.
CLASSIFICATION 47-1-4

FROM : Chief of Station, Feirut DATE 6 May 19
SUBJECT: GENERAL- Avainistrative

SPECIFIC- Request for Official Iravei
References: A. FR 22-100, Para 8.a.
B. ALEA-6479
Michael M. CHOADEN and Family
It is requested that Travel Orders be issued for Michael M. CHOADEN
who is returning to Headquarters for resignation. The following information
is submitted in accordance with instructions contained in reference
regulation:

1. Narms and position of traveler: Michael M. CHOADEN, staff agert
attached to the Heirut Station.

2. Plur.ose of travel: Return to Headquarters for resination,

3. Pustination: Fort Worth, Texas, residence of subject, with
stop-off in Washington for resignation.

4. Estiratei date of departure: 5 August 1958.

5. Aroroximate duration of travel: Three weeks.

6. Desired mode of transportation: Sea.

7.