14-00000
104-10092-10340 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO : DIRECTOR KOUTING

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION, WH 8-

INFO : CI, CI/OPS, CI/CA, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

SECRET 0823152

DIR CITE MEXI 6445
LOIMOD OVE 24.06 55550

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1. REQUEST TRACES AND INITIATION POA ON HECTOR RAFAEL LAPA
VAZQUEZ BORN 4 AUG 1928 MEXICO CITY. SUBJ RESIDED CHICAGO APR 1927-[]

FIRST WIFE (NU) U.S. NATIONAL, HAS FOLL U.S, NATIONAL DAUGHTERS:

MRS. GRAUELLE PONZIO RESIDING 235 FREDERICK LANE, POSSELLE,

PRISCILLA LAWOCKI, ALSO IN POSSELLE. MEXI HAS NO TRACES ANY PROVE.]

2. LAPA ADVISED EME SECURITY OFFICER 20 SEPT THAT WAS AT PARTY

WEEK EARLIER WITH SOV FIRST SEC SERGEY SERGEYEVICH KONSTANTINOV

(SUSPECT KGB PRESIDENT)] TASS CORRESPONDENT PIOTR FEDOTOV] AND THIRD

SOV (NU) PARTY AT HOME OF VIRGINIA GOMEZ NIETO OTHER PERSON IN

ATTENDANCE WAS GOMEZ BOYFRIEND RICARDO POERY CERVANTES. INTERRELATIONSHIP

OF ABOVE IS THAT GOMEZ IS SUB WIFE'S HAIR DRESSER, GOMEZ NTRODUCED

SUBJ TO POERY ABOUT TWO MONTHS AGO. POERY IS PROMINENT MEXICAN

JOURNALIST OF EXTREME LEFTIST ORIENTATION AND PRESIDENT OF MEXICAN

ACCOSIATION OF JOURNALISTS. COMMON SPOUND BETWEEN PEORY] AND

THAT LOTTER IS SUCCESSFUL ADVERTISING SALESMAN AND PUBLICITY

GALICIA CHAIN NEUSPAPERS WHICH CONSERVATIVE, IS ALSO

ASSOCIATION

TOLD THE SECURITY OFFICER, AND LATER GESTETNER, THAT

15417

17/PJ

MESSAGE

REJECTED NEW CONTACT SINCE HE PRO AMERICAN AND DOES NOT WANT

JEOPARDIZE HIS PRIVILEGE TRAVEL US., NOR JEOPARDIZE POSITION HIS

DAUGHTERS. ASKED WHETHER SHOULD CONTINUE SEE SOUS WHO TENTATIVELY

INVITED HIM PARTY NEAR FUTURE.

3. MEXI TOLD SUBJ TAKE NO INITIATIVE WITH SOUS BUT FOR PRESENT

ACCEPT INVITES, FURTNER INTEREST COLOCITY SOV REALITIES, NOT

CHANGE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL STANCE WHICH SUBJ SAYS KNOWN POERY.

5. 8 OCT SUBJ REPORTED MET EDOTON AT JOURNALIST ASSOCIATION MEETING

7 OCT. LATTER ENTERTAINED EDITOR AND WIFE AT DINNER.

[EDITOR] AGAIN TENDERED LANRIQUE, FUTURE INVITE.

C. TOO EARLY SPECIFICALLY DEUIL OBJECTIVE SUBJ UTILIZATION BUT IF

POSSIBLE WILL REPORT SOUS CONTACTS ABOUT FEDOTOV KONSTANTINOV.]

LARIS DESCRIPTION, THIRD MAN AT FIRST PARTY COULD BE SOV INFO

ELLOTIN SEP SERGEY SEMBOROVICH KUMPABECKO ACCORDING LIENVOY

THES, LATTER HAS PECULIAR PERIGNE PERSONALITY, FREQUENTLY TALKS

DISTARAGINGLY OF SOVAND, GETS DRUNK OFTEN, IS ON POOR TERMS WITH

SEVERAL SOVERS OFFICERS.) IF OP DEVELOPS, NO FUNDING NECESSARY.

SECRET

15417
