104-10216-10159

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION NO
C/TSD/EB DATE 24 June 1964

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) DATE INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED

1. C/WH/SA/MOB/PM
GH4408 Hdqrs. Bushnell 13X
phantom scopes are
2. NA/21/30/NS made in Japan-
w/w distribution

3. Wit/SA/608/Warrangrought all have English nacking

4. dott
LOH: 2 have
5. tockho
loger the for
6.
yom attention

7.

8.
An

9.
fule AMCHINI
Seems like a foche job
10.
tus.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 USE PREVIOUS USE ONLY
EDITIONS
:
i

14-00000
L
SECRET

24 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/WH/SA/MOB/PM

SUBJECT : Improved Sight for 7.62 Belgium (FAL) Rifle

REFERENCE : a) Memo for the Rcd. dated 25 May 64,
Subject: "FAL Silencer/Sights", from
C/WH/SA/MOB/PM

1. In accordance with reference a) the following material
is provided:

a) Three open rear sight hoods for the subject rifle.
b) Three copies of instructions for installing the
sight and zeroing the rifle.
c) Three tool kits containing an adjustment screw
driver and two files.
d) 400 rounds of improved underloaded ammunition with
cream of wheat filler. (Boxes marked with red strip.
These should be substituted for the rounds already
delivered).

2. It must be understood that the limited time available
would not permit more that cursory acceptance testing and the
superiority of this sight over the standard unit has not been
definitely established.

3. The scope and mount requested in reference a) proved
to be an unfeasible development in the time available. A mount
could not be devised which was interchangeable with any FAL
without extensive modification to the weapon.

4. For additional information regarding this matter con-
tact D. J. Hogan or D. R. Dunn on extension 3319.

WALTER L. ERHARDT
Chief
TSD/Engineering Branch

Attachments: As Stated

Distribution:
1- Addressee
1- TSD/SDB
1 - C/TSD
1 EB-81J

SECRET
631
Exchased tres reteafle
আ

14-00000

SNAP-ON SIGHT HOOD FOR

THE 7.62 BELGIUM (FAL) RIFLE

1. The sight hood snaps over the existing rear sight on
the 7.62 Belgium (FAL) rifle. It is designed to raise the rear
sight to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the under-
loaded ammunition and is an open sight for increased night sighting
capability.

2. The sight hood is oriented with the three screws facing
the muzzle end of the rifle (See attached drawings). Press
down on the hood until the ball detent snaps into the peep hole

3. The slot for the existing rear sight is made tight
so that the hood will fit firmly in place. If it fails to fit,
file the existing rear sight as necessary. If the sight fits
the slot but is difficult to snap on and off, or is too loose,
adjust the ball detent by turning the center set screw on the
sight hood.

4. The weapon must be zeroed on a known distance firing
range to determine the sight settings and proper sight picture
for standard and underloaded ammunition when using the hood.
The only adjustments possible are those already on the rifle.
(That is, elevation control using the graduated ramp and windage
control by adjustment of the two locking screws at the base of
the existing rear sight dovetail.)

NOTE: It is very important to hold the rifle the same way each
time so that the relation of the eye to the rear sight
remains constant. The user must determine his own zero
for each rifle and hood combination and maximur effective
range for each ammunition type.
:
3

14-00000

FRONT VIEW

14-00000

L
4
3
2
0
0
REAR VIEW
