104-10169-10017 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Chief, Task Force/W
Chief of Station, JAVE

Operational/GYROSE
FAL/Vertice Tres 05

2 April 1932

1. On 31 March 1962 Alberto Mariano Parojon Cerconas, A 12895179,
born 11 December 1933, a bank employee, Miami address: 401 17 18th Ave
no telephone, was interviewed.

2. Source said he was a member of EAC, FAL and Vertice Tres ("The
Third Position").

3. Source said that EAC (Salvar a Cuba) was destroyed by Cuban
security forces.

4. Source said that FAL (Fuerza Anti-Camunista de Liberacion) is
well organized, the best organized being the forces in Piner del Rio
Province. He said that FAL has guns and ammunition, and is an action
type group, conspiring to provoke an uprising and cutting off cummica-
tions. Source was reluctant to name any FAL contact, but finally named
06 Ramon Parejon Porazas a contact man. He said that he could arrange bona
fides with Parojon, and he was told that perhaps in the future someone
would call upon him and introduce themselves as "amigos de Echerto" and
discuss this in further detail. He agreed. He said that some months
ago the FAL sent out (microfilmed) maps showing sites for landing arms and
also its proposed caching sites, but he did not know to whom this informa-
tion was passed.

5. Source said that he was also associated with Vortice Tres, and
described this organization as being: composed of intellectuals and
professionals. Its mission is not clear because as he described it one
of the functions is to explain the horrors of the Communist system to the
masses by the adoption of a third position. Vertice is also interested in
more subtle approaches, such as industrial slowdowns and sabotage. The
emphasis, however, appears to be on propaganda and he said Vertice is on
the point of obtaining a radio plant. He was asked if this was a "pirate
radio", but he replied no, that it would remain on the air so that it could
be heard. When asked about the fixing problems, he said he was told by an
engineer who is working on this project that it was a "Delta System Radio"
and they would not have to be afraid of flying. (This does not make sense,
but it was all the source knew on this subject.)

6. Source said that Vertice needs supplies, such as Minox cameras,
but he would not or could not give the name of a Vertice contact in Habana.

He said there/

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CCA - 105
poco 2
He said there is a Vertice contact in Miami, Carillo (Lnu) and although
he did not know the last name or address of Carrillo, he was going to try
and locate him. I was again reminded of the "calcos" who would call
on him for this information.

7. Source said that before he left Cuba he met with Placio Carrillo,
the niece of Justo Carrillo. She told him that Justo sent in a message
saying "Be careful with Flavio." Placio asked the source to get in touch
with Justo and tell him that if he had derogatory information on Flavio
he should send the details. The thought Justo's message was confusing.
Source said that "Flavio" is the cover name for Evelio Duque who also uses
"Trent" and "Manolito." Source said that it is believed that the name
Evelio Duque is in itself a war name.

8. Source identified Arturo Colri, an employee of the National Park,
Agencia 1-10-10, Linea y O Vedado, Habana, as a self-admitted member of
G-2. Arturo is about 32 years old, white, stocky (about 150 pounds), 5'8"
tall, white, black hair and has a large mustache. He was formerly the
handyman at the bank, but because of his G-2 position he is now a man of
prestige and catered to by all.

Folsom L. Haycock
