120400023
104-10422-10054
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

11/4
Reilly says gitting pressure
re Weisenbery request on Mosanke.
Heads to know when of will finish
on him. Said whahall. Said
would try to cortale.

Dean said this cras dom Will
tay gift from San Wigen. She did it.
Pastry shamed we Sarit ham Roccos
malariet, Malayd is supposed to be gi thing

APM

13-00000

Points for Dan.
TOA -O.T.
Bather ham mumbang thai
off.
Ebanon on Wade + Subosthar
Thiedeman on creva tram
Other offici.A.Day
Prupin
They will bring all withs.

13-00000
11/1
ury Hartman uskrton umand
for Rankin of 23, Mar. 611 in Vol 31
which refers to Agency cafre
to lowry (Dat 74673).

13-00000
+0/
11/4
Mr. wall:
Mr. Workis believes
that the drafte the canlu
withheld for the FOIA lequests.
Cenless they present a
significant chang from
the fisical expey. If we
inter see a finel capes!)
shall markttis att.
for no release?
also-what about other
dufts-shall we

13-00000

11/3
Betays paint on the susitthin
point for defectors being us used
by referring to the Careturn of
the resident agent who in towmind
ie. New Haven.

13-00000
AM
10/31

Geve Wibon said he would
not provide a grep for FOIA
over the weekend as he is
be hind in 2000 request& one
more isn't going to matter.

He called in response to
umy ure quei Co Kalülski.

13-00000
Won't Dan in charge for a days.
Workach. 10 progh each day

Senate
FOIA not working our cunkunda
I would like

13-00000
Paints for G.K...
Zöldunkin Paris.
-
1161
Sat-Sun-Mon.
Jomy
Biostate ok with escagle clauses.
3. Declars for Sanate
+
FOIA-One standard
240

13-00000
For final spot check. of
FOLA umaterial.
(4-1
xchuck all tilsin kith offre
xchuck all uilch testagiinfo.
24

2/DV
