104-10220-10020 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
ADVANCE COPY
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled in)
TOTAL COPIES
HOUTING AND/OR IN FIAL

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR IN FILE
ACTION UNIT
ACTION NO.
FILE, VR
RETURN TO CI/OPS,
BRANCH
FILE
089

SECRET 121014Z JUN 70 CITE 8708
DIRECTOR, BONN, FRANKFURT, BERLIN INFO ZURICH
INK
15450)
12 Jun 70
102149
REF: ZURICH 1629, 17 MAR 1969, ET. AL. (NOT NEEDED BONN FRANKFURT)

1. INFREED HAS REPORTED THAT RICHARD CASE NAGELL BORN -
5 AUGUST 1930, NEW YORK, US CIT, HAS AGAIN COME TO SWISS ATTENTION.
IN MID APRIL 1970 HE REGISTERED AT ZURICH HOTEL. ON 15 APRIL 1970
REPORTED TO POLICE THAT HIS RAINCOAT HAD DISAPPEARED. CLAIMED
THAT AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT INTENDED FOR THE AMERICAN MILITARY
AUTHORITIES IN BERLIN WAS IN THE POCKET. DOCUMENT WAS ENTITLED
"FISCAL YEAR 70 (USAREUR)."

2. RAINCOAT WAS FOUND SHORT WHILE LATER IN HOTEL SANS
ALLEGED DOCUMENT. HOTEL TURNED RAINCOAT OVER TO ZURICH POLICE
WHERE SUBJ SUBSEQUENTLY PICKED IT UP.

3. WHEN QUESTIONED BY POLICE, SUBJ GAVE AS REFERENCES:
ANIMA

A. COL. FRANCIS H. DILLON, OFFICE OF COUNTER INTELLIGENCE
AND SECURITY, DIA, WASHINGTON.

B. FRANCIS X. PLANT, SPECIAL ASSISTANT, OFFICE OF UNDER
SECRETARY OF ARMY.

C. BRUCE A. FLATIN, PUBLIC SAFETY SECTION, US MISSION

SECRET CS COPY
12 June 70
201-746537

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
ADVANCE COPY
DISSEM DY
ACTION UNIT
ACTION NO.
FILE, VR
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled in)
TOTAL COPIES
OUTING AND/OR IN FIAL
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
RETURN TO
1:31 PM '70
FILE RID
PAGE 2 BERN 8708 SECRET
BERLIN.

4. SUBJ CLAIMED HE NOW LIVING HOTEL STADT DRESDEN, BERLIN-
CHARLOTTENBURG, STUTTERTER PLATZ 17.

5. BONN FRANKFURT BERLIN: SUBJ IS FABRICATOR AND MENTAL
CASE WHO PERIODICALLY CAUSES TROUBLE FOR SWISS AND LNPURE
CONSULATES IN SUISSE.

6. HQS: REQUEST PERMISSION PASS INBREED INFO CONTAINED PARA 3
DIRECTOR 80955, 6 MARCH 1969. OTHER ADDEES: PLEASE ADVISE APPROPRIATE
US ARMY AUTHORITIES ON OFF CHANCE THEY ARE MISSING COPY OF "FISCAL
YEAR 70 (USAREUR)."

7. FILE 201-746537. GP-1-
SECRET
SECRET
