104-10172-10279 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
14-00000
SACT 714-1

ACTON REQUIRED REFERENCES
REF: OFH-4656, 18 June 1965

1. Concerning as part of Section 12 of the CPR on Mikhail
Vasilyevich KURACHOV (201-205139), forwarded with reference, are
the following entries: Station would like to clarify
some of the information previously reported by the Station which
undoubtedly has led Headquarters to the conclusion contained in
the second paragraph immediately below.

When told that Subject (Mikhail Vasilyevich KURACHOV 201-
205139) has been posted to Finland, Sommer (a Soviet defector)
commented that Subject probably be responsible
for penetrating the police.

(This speculation by Source is probably not correct since
this responsibility belongs to Peter Nikitovich, who
arrived in Helsinki about the time that Subject did, to
replace Ivan Yefimovich SERGEEV.)

2. Petr Nikitovich SAVALYEV (201-140430), Counsellor of
Embassy and head of the Press Section. SAVALYEV filled the
Counsellor slot vacated by Vasiliyevich SOLOKO (201-142338)
who dealt with trade. I do not recall the Chief of the Press
Section prior to SAVALYEV's arrival, however, SAVALYEV is NOT
the replacement for Ivan ANNOYEV (201-259447) as stated in
073447, 13 February 1962.

3. We doubt very much that SAVALYEV was involved in police
penetration. His contacts in Finland (also in Norway) were for
the most part with the press (2610, 22 Nov 1964, etc.) and
he circulated freely in that milieu. SAVALYEV did not speak
Finnish, despite the fact that VALINE informed us he spoke fairly
good Finnish (239447) which was probably an initial assessment
on their part.

4. Although a CD suspect during his tour in Norway, his
CROSS REFERENCE TO DATE TYPED 16 July 65
DATE DISPATCHED
201-259447 DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER 22 07331

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET 201-140430

(Galub Grigoriy) Ye.
81SR
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CONTINUATION OF 14-00000
DISPATCH SECRET 22 07331

activities in Helsinki at first appeared to be those of a N03 co-
optee, and later more obviously those of an officer in the
CA field. Walter R. CLASSENBORY's contacts with SAVALYEV took
place either in press circles or in the presence of Aleksey
SLUMAROV (201-205095) whom we suspect of being the deputy rezident
in Helsinki. Thus the milieu in which SAVALYEV operated, we
tend to place him in the 2SS category rather than an 0.30.
and
5. SAVALYEV, who left for home leave on 10 July 1964 never
returned, was replaced by NGS officer Albert AKULOV (201-232590),
first secretary and press attache.

6. Concerning Ivan Yefimovich SERGEYEV (201-259447), SERGEYEV
replaced as officer Dmitry Ye. GOLDIN (201-150156), Chief of
the Consular Section. After the defection of ANIKIN/1, this
Section was in confusion and the exact slot-for-slot replacements
are not known. In our best judgment, SERGEYEV was replaced by
Anatoliy PAVLOV (201-331811) who departed 2 March 1963 because of
ill health. PAVLOV was temporarily replaced by an officer Genia
Vasilyevich PERELETOV ostensibly assigned to the Cultural Section
(22@FLA-633, 6 March 1964) who departed 31 March 1964 also because
of ill health. PERELETOV was replaced for consular responsibilities
by KGB officer Feliks Dmitryevich KARASEV (201-736991).

OLIVIA R. CLENICK
Distribution:
3 - WE
2- SR
530 VER PREVIOUS EDITION SECRET CONTD PAGE NO
2
