104-10247-10042 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

RIG: JOHN SEARS:ch
WH/COG/OPS
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY
SECRET
2 1
5061/1255
A: 9 May 1969
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
CONF: FILE IN CE FILE NO.
WHB PER FILE, VR.
(classification)
SECRET (date and time filed) (elite) (preference number)
09 22 242 MAY 69 CITE DIRECTOR 00801

TO PRIORITY MADRID, MEXICO CITY, WH/MIAMI
TYPIC AMCHALK
REF: DIRECTOR 00402
1. AT HQS REQUEST WODISH CONTACTED "BROTHER-IN-LAW"
MENTIONED PARA 1 REF 9 MAY. TURNS OUT THIS INDIVIDUAL,
DR. MARTIN PELLA, FORMERLY A REGULAR WODISH(SOURCE), IS NOT
GUIN'S BROTHER-IN-LAW. PELLA TOLD WODISH FOLLOWING: HIS
BROTHER-IN-LAW, FELIX SUAREC (AS RECEIVED FROM WODISH),
DEFECTED MEXICO ABOUT ONE MONTH AGO. HE IS THE ONE HOLED UP
IN A MEXICO CITY HOTEL, THOUGH THIS TIME PELLA DID NOT
MENTION THE PANUCO. PELLA SAYS SUAREC TOLD HIM BY PHONE THAT
COMANDANTE RAMON GUIN HAD HELPED HIM GET OUT OF CUBA, WHERE
SUAREC HAD BEEN WITH "MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY ON PROJECT DOING
COMPUTER COMPILATION OF MILITARY AND INDUSTRIAL FIGURES WHICH
BEING PROGRAMMED INTO SOME SYSTEM DEALING WITH TRADE AGREEMENTS".
SUAREC HAD PREVIOUSLY BEEN WITH "PETROLEUM INSTITUTE." SUAREC
ALLEGEDLY TOLD PELLA THAT HE THINKS GUIN ALSO WANTS TO LEAVE
COUNTRY "BUT DOESN'T HAVE THE MEANS".
RELEASING OFFICER CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.

MESSAGE FOR
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
14-00000
IG:
VIT:
DATE: JUN 19 103.
TABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
RID/EDI
ONP:
FILE, VR.
NO INDEX RETURN TO
FILE IN CE FILE NO.
BRANCH FILE RID
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

(classification) (date and time filed) (elite) (reference number)
SECRET CITE DIRECTOR 00801
PAGE TWO
2. RECHECK REF PARA 2 VISA REQUEST SHOWS RAMON TOMAS
GUIN DIAZ'S ADDRESS AS "IN CUBA", WITH HIS WIFE, MARGARITA
MARIA EMILIA (ARENAL) VEGA, IN SPAIN. HOWEVER, STILL APPEARS
REFERENCE TO TRAVEL OF RAMON GUIN ARENAL (WHICH REPORTED AS
"INTENDED") PER PARA 5 REF MAY PERTAIN TO SUBJ, THOUGH COULD
ALSO BE HIS SON. AS OF MARCH 66 SUBJ WAS REPORTED TO HAVE
TWO CHILDREN (SEX UNKNOWN) BY HIS WIFE DAISY (LNU). HOWEVER
NOTE DAISY IS ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF FLOWER "MARGARITA", SO
WAS POSSIBLY NICKNAME OF MARGARITA ARENAL. HQS HAS NO TRACES
MARGARITA OR DAISY ARENAL OR ON ARENAL'S FATHER VICENTE WHO
PER VISA REQUEST RESIDES LOS ANGELES.
3. HMMA 36756 REPORTED ONE FELIX SUAREZ MORE TRAVELLED
CUBA-MEXICO 5 MARCH 69 ON CUBAN PP 130637. PELLA'S REPORT
INDICATES SUAREZ MAY BE OF DEBRIEFING INTEREST. PELLA ALSO
SAID SUAREC HAS SON IN DENVER, AND SENATOR DOMINICK OF COLORADO
ATTEMPTING ARRANGE SUAREZ'S ENTRY INTO U.S. BELIEVE SUAREZ IS
IDEN WITH FELIX (SUAREZ) MORE, CITED IN UFGA 26404, 25 NOV 66.
THIS DISPATCH FORWARDED DEBRIEFING REPORT OF FORMER MININD
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET GROUP
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.

IG: ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY
MESSAGE FOR
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET
NIT: 1 2
DATE:
ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
CONF: FILE IN CE FILE NO.
FILE. VR.
(classification) (date and time filed) (elite) (reference number)
SECRET CITE DIRECTOR 00801
PAGE THREE

IBM PROGRAMMERX WHO SAID SUAREZ MORE, DOB CIRCA 1916, HAD
SON IN U.S. AND WAS PROGRAMMER AT "DIRECCION DE SISTEMAS Y
ORGANIZACION" OF MININD.
4. VIEW ALL AFOVE, BELIEVE MEXICO CITY CAN FORGET ABOUT
GUIN DIAZ. WOULD APPRECIATE (MADRID) STATION, EITHER THROUGH
(QUETCH OR STATION OFFICER USING(EMBASSY COVER) ATTEMPT ARRANGE
ROUTINE INTERVIEW WITH ARENAL PEGGED TO VISA REQUEST. GUIN'S
TRIAL WAS WIDELY PUBLICIZED. OUR IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE IS
ASCERTAIN GUIN'S CURRENT STATUS AND INTENTIONS, AND ACCOUNT
FOR WHY MAN SENTENCED YEARSNOW APPARENTLY OUT OF JAIL
AND APPARENTLY CONTEMPLATING BEING ABLE EXIT CUBA.
END OF MESSAGE
C/WH/COG
WH
E/IB/S
WH/SAO Souch
OLC MR. APPLE (IN DRAFT)
JOHN H. SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI
RELEASING OFFICER
CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
