14-00000

INTELLIGENCE
Intelligence Information Report
This material contains information affecting the National Defence of the United States within the meaning
of the Espionage Laws, Title 18 U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any
manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM CONFIDENTIAL NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti REPORT NO. 00-B-321/10754-69

SUBJECT Reported Final Terms for Award of DATE DISTR 21 APR 1969
Gambling Concession/Clemard
Joseph-Charles' Involvement NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO Apr 69 Supplement to: 00B-321/07210-69

PLACE & DATE ACQPort-au-Prince, Haiti,Apr 69

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Naturalized US citizen of Haitian birth, who makes frequent trips
to Haiti. Source maintains close contact with Haitians in the US
and with prominent business and political figures in Haiti.

1. As part of his effort to obtain foreign exchange, Haiti's President
Duvalier has decided to award a gambling concession. A US syndicate,
consisting of a New York City firm, Keynote Associates, and of Count
Michel Levitch, Bishop of the American Cathodox Church, has been
trying to obtain the concession. (Collector's Note: see reference
for additional details.).

2. The Bishop has severed his connections with Keynote, which bombarded
President Duvalier with telegrams and made an unannounced trip to
Haiti to obtain the concession.

3. However, Keynote received a telegram from Antoine André, Direc-
tor of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti. This message informed them
that they would not receive the concession. President Duvalier
relies very heavily upon Andre for advice and guidance in economic
matters.

4. Almost at the same time that Keynote received André's telegram,
Clémard Joseph-Charles notified the Bishop that he would re-
ceive the concession on the following terms:

a. A new group of associates of the Bishop will receive
80 percent of the gross receipts from the concession.

b. The Government of Haiti will receive 10 percent of the
gross receipts.

c. The Bishop and his chief partner will receive five per-
cent of the gross receipts.

U NO CONFIDENTIAL S NO
The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components
of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled
in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the US Government directly
participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS It shall not be disseminated to organiza-
tions or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator
CHARLES

CONTROLLED DISSEM CONFIDENTIAL NO DISSEM ABROAD
00B-321/10754-69

d. The remaining five percent of the gross receipts will be
used by the Bishop, reportedly under Haitian supervision,
to begin construction of schools and child care centers
in Haiti. These schools and centers will be under the
auspices of the American Orthodox Church.

5. Joseph-Charles's authorship of the telegram which virtually promised
the concession to the new group indicates that his fortunes may be
on the mend. He certainly could never have sent such a message with
out the approval of President Duvalier. That he was permitted to
send it indicates that the President may be beginning to look upon
him more favorably than he has done in the recent past.

end

CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable
ROUTINE

075915
075925
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONE CRS WORKERTA
FBI SS/ID I&NS

This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18 USC. Sece 793 and 794, the
transmission or revelatios of which in any manner to an uncurhanzad person is prohibred by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET
CITE TDCS-314/04593-70
DIST 7 MAY 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

DOI APRIL 1970 0314 320 MAY 70

SUBJECT STATUS OF COL. KESNER BLAIN, QUARTERMASTER GENERAL OF ARMED
FORCES, AND CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF COMMERCIAL
BANK, IMPRISONED FOR ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING
2. DENUNCIATION OF COL. OCTAVE CATARD, COMMANDER OF COAST GUARD,
BY LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, DEPUTY FROM ARCAHAIE

ACQ HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (1 MAY 1970)
FIELD NO. HTP-1406, 1405

SOURCE A HAITIAN UNIVERSITY GRADUATE WHO HAS GOOD CONTACTS AMONG MEMBERS
OF THE HAITIAN MILITARY. HE IS A NEW SOURCE AND THE RELIABILITY
OF HIS REPORTING HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

1.. ONE OF THE SOLDIERS AT THE DESSALINES BARRACKS WHO IS
GUARDING COL. KESNER BLAIN, QUARTERMASTER GENERAL OF THE
ARMED FORCES, AND CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, WHO WERE ARRESTED IN EARLY APRIL
1970 FOR ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING, SAID THAT BOTH MEN
STILL VERE ALIVE AS OF 30 APRIL. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:
TDCS-314/03869-70 REPORTED THE ARRESTS OF BLAIN AND CHARLES.)

2. ACCORDING TO A SOLDIER AT THE NATIONAL PALACE, COL.
OCTAVE CAYARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, WAS SUMMONED

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN
(classikeaton)

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification)
(dissem controls)

IN 075915
075925
TDCS-314/04593-70
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

TO THE PALACE ON 22 APRIL 1970 BY PRESIDENT FRANCOIS D'UVALIER
AS A RESULT OF A DENUNCIATION BY LUCKNER CAMBRONNE,
A DEPUTY FROM ARCAHAIE. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: TDCS-314/03869-70
REPORTED THAT CAMBRONNE WAS A MEMBER OF A COMMISSION ASSIGNED
BY DUVALIER TO INTERROGATE THE PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WEEK
OF 1 APRIL 1970.) WHILE CAYARD WAS WITH DUVALIER, CAMBRONNE
TELEPHONED DUVALIER TO SAY THAT CAYARD SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED
BECAUSE HE (CAMBRONNE) HAD IRREFUTABLE PROOF OF CAYARD'S
COMPLICITY IN ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING. DUVALIER ASKED CAMBRONNE
TO REPEAT HIS ACCUSATION WHILE HE GAVE CAYARD THE TELEPHONE
RECEIVER TO LISTEN. FOLLOWING THE CONVERSATION WITH CAMBRONNE,
DUVALIER REASSURED CAYARD OF HIS TRUST IN HIM AND REQUESTED
CAYARD TO ARREST TWO COAST GUARD OFFICERS DURING THE COURSE OF
THAT WEEK, CAYARD AGREED TO FOLLOW THE ORDER, BUT TOLD DUVALIER
THAT HE KNEW THE ADDRESS OF ONLY ONE OF THE TWO OFFICERS.
(FIELD COMMENT: ON 24 APRIL 1970, CAYARD LED AN ABORTIVE REVOLT
BY THE COAST GUARD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. SEE TDCS-314/04646-70
AND SUBSEQUENT REPORTING ON THIS SUBJECT.)

3. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLANT.
(ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
:
DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
PORT AU PRINCE 472
DATE: 28 APRIL 1970

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: REPORTS OF EXECUTIONS OF PERSOMS ALLEGEDLY
INVOLVED IN COAST COARD ATTACK

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
PORT AU PRINCE 295
DATE: 7 APRIL 1970
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ARRESTS OF COMMERCIAL BANK OFFICERS

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO. 2.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

5. SOURCE CRYPTONYM, 6. DATE OF INFO 9. EVALUATION

S. ANALYST A. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE DOCUMENT DISPOSITION 13. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION 14.

CHARLES 036-009-006
201-357029 PRIN-06803
SEX M DOB ? 15 APR 70
CIT ?
OCC ?
ACCUSED OF COUP PLOTTING

HTP R 7005080679

FILE IN 201-357029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET (17-46)

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT SECRET

ORIG. BERYL E. BACKMAN

UNIT WH/7/HAITI/REPORTS
EXT. 4222
DATE 13 APRIL 1970
CONF: WH 15
CA 5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI, CI/PS, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, FI/D, IW

DATE DISTRIBUTED
13 APRIL 1970
DISSEMINATION
PRECEDENCE

WH/REG 1 WH/7/Ht 7 WHS1DOM #
WH/R 2 WH/7/DR 1 REF LANT #
WH/FI 1 WHMIAMI
WH/CA 1 WHS1/Y #
WH/7/R 1
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
P R O UT I N E

PORT AU PRINCE 6798
(IN 060590)
HTP-1379
H/PACY (CINCSO) # EVLEMON (EVLEMON-19)

LIAISON: *

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
: R OISON
C/WH/7/R

CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET Rob If Rieti
C/WH/R
COPY NO.

Charles 201-357.29

INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC SECDEF ACS ARKT MAYT A CLANCE NIC NSA SDO ONE CAS

FBI, EXO, DDI

This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the Sitect Inches with the secting of the Expinage love Titte DR. B.SC. Sect. 793 exd 794.
icorrereianas of which in any s wavtorad person is probaby p

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET CITE TDCS-314/02923-71
DIST 17 MARCH 1971

COUNTRY : HAITI

DOI : MID-MARCH 1971

SUBJECT : RESULTS OF THE INTERROGATION OF CLEMARD JOSEPH
CHARLES AND KESSER PLAIS

ACQ : HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (16 MARCH ISTI) HTP-1469

SOURCE : A FORMER HAITIAN GOVERIMENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAD
THE CONFIDENCE OF MANY MEMBERS OF THE DUVALIER
GOVERMENT. HIS PAST REPORTING EAS GENERALLY
BEES ACCURATE. HE RECEIVED THIS INFORMATICE
FROM A HIGH RANKING MEMBER OF THE HAITIAN
ARKED FORCES GENERAL STAFF.

1. ACCORDING TO SRIG. GEK. CLAUDE RAYNCED, CHIEF
OF HAITIAN ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
DUVALIER COMPLETED HIS PERSONAL INTERROGATIGE OF
CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, FORMER FRESIDENT OF THE
COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AND COL. KESKER BLAIN, FORKER
QUARTERMASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES, OF 15 MARCH 1971.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classtfestion)
(dissem controls)
IN 289539
TDCS-314/02923-71
PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES
(FIELD COMMENT: HTP-1467, TDCS-314/02737-71 REPORTED THAT
DUVALIER HAD SEEN BLAIN PRIVATELY ON 9 MARCH 1971 AND BLAIS
AND CHARLES TOGETHER ON 12 KARCH 1971. THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED
THAT DUVALIER HAD AGAIN SEER BLAIN AND CHARLES ON 15 MARCH 1971.)

2. RAYMOND SAID THAT, IS HIS INTERROGATION OF CHARLES,
DUVALIER APPEARED PRIMARILY CONCERNED WITH DETERMINING IF
CHARLES HAD SERVED AS A FUNDING CHANNEL FROM AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN

TO THE HAITIAN CONSPIRATORS. IN THE COURSE OF THE INTERROGATION,
DUVALIER SHOWED CHARLES A PHOTOCOPY OF A CASHIER'S CHECK FOR
$178,823 DRAWN IN CHARLES BAKE. CHARLES ALLEGEDLY REPLIED THAT
HE HAD DEALINGS WITH MAKY FOREIGNERS AND HAITIANS. HE DENIED
DUVALIER'S CHARGES SAYING THAT, IF HE HAD BEEN INVOLVED, IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN A PURELY HAITIAN AFFAIR AND THAT HE WOULD NOT
SULLY HAITI'S HONOR BY SEEKING HELP FROM FOREIGNERS.

3. ACCORDING TO RAYMOND, BLAIS ALSO DENIED ANY FOREIGN
INVOLVEMENT. HOWEVER, HE SAID THAT ALL THE CABINET MEMBERS
HAD CONSPIRED WITH HIM AT OKE TIME CR ANOTHER, EXCEPT FOR
AURELE JOSEPH, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTERIOR AND NATIONAL
DEFENSE; МАХ АБТΟΙΔΕ SECRETARY OF STATE FOR SOCIAL AFFAIRS.
,
AND ANDRE DUBE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC
,

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET;

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classthoction)
(dissem controls)
IN.
289539
TDCS-314/02923-71
PAGE 3
F4 PAGES

AFFAIRS. BLAIN ALSO IMPLICATED ABOUT ONE QUARTER OF THE
49-MAN NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, INCLUDING SUCH PERSONS AS ULRICH
ST. LOUIS, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSEMBLY AND DEPUTIES
LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, VICTOR SEVERS CONSTANT,
AND MME. MARCELLE AUGUSTIN. BLAIN ADDED THAT HE HAD
ALSO CONSPIRED WITH COL. BRETON CLAUDE, COMMANDER OF
THE DESSALINES BATTALION, AND COL. FRED M. ARTY INSPECTOR
GENERAL OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES. BLAIN SAID THAT, LONG

BEFORE APRIL 1970, CLAUDE HAD ALSO BEEN INVOLVED IN VARIOUS
CONSPIRACIES WITH CLOVIS DESINOR, FORMER SECRETARY OF
STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, LUCKNER CAMBRONNE,
AND THE LATE LEON BORDES, AND THAT THESE MEN HAD FORMED
A. CLANDESTINE POLITICAL PARTY WITH DE INOR AS PRESIDENT.

4. RAYMOND SAID THAT DUVALIER WAS CONTINUING A SECRET
C INVESTICATION OF THESE ADMISSIONS, PARTICULARLY IN RESPECT
TO POSSIBLE FOREIGN FINANCING OF THE PLOT. IN RAYMOND'S
OPINION, DUVALIER WILL TAKE NO ACTION UNTIL THE INVESTIGATION
IS COMPLETE.

5. CONCERNING THE MILITARY TRIBUNAL WHICH WAS CONVENED
IN EARLY MARCH 1971, RAYMOND SAID THAT THE TRIAL WAS SIMFLY

C C
C

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)
IN 289539
TDCS-314/91961-72
PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

RESISTANCE MOVEMENT IN MONTREAL, AND A PROFESSOR RENE SAINT-
LOUIS, WHO IS ALSO LOCATED IN CANADA, TO BE IMPORTANT ENEMIES
OF THE GOH.

6. FIELD DISSEM: SENT TO PORT AU PRINCE, PARIS, SANTO
DOMINGO, MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, OTTAWA.

5 SECRET
tele-atften Non
RC
MAR 29 72

NO FOREIGN DISSEN
(diesem confte

54321

PERSON/UNIT

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED REPRODUCTIONS COPY PROHIBITED

MAR 17 23 14271 TDCS-314/02923-71

AT:
z
HTP 1469

DISSEM BY PER JSP 19.1/4.
ACTION UNIT 5,
WH 13
ACTION NO. 544 FILE. VR. ADOP. CS/DO. FI
DDP, CA 3, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, DO 4, EUR 5, SOD 3.

SECRET 171719Z MAR 71 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 17429
DIRECTOR INFO PANAMA CITY, PARIS, REP/LANT, SANTO DOMINGO

ICTEL 17289539
SUPDATA: EVLEMON/2 FROM EVLEMON/18 FROM SUBJ PORT AU PRINCE
it FILED: 7355 WHO TALKED TO RAYMOND. NO INDEX. FILE: 35-9-11.
1717192
201-357,029
SECRET
elemand foxph Charles.

DEPT OF STATE TELEGPAM
PORT AU PRINCE 1630
DATE: 28 NOVEMBER 1972
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: PRESIDENT GRANTS CLEMENCE TO 89
PRISONERS

TDCS INFORMATI REPORT SECRET

ORIG BETTY A. VAZQUEZ EN

UNTI WH/7/HAITI/REPORTS ROUTING
EXT. 4178/1528 1

DATE 24 MARCH 1972 2
CONF WH-20 3
CA 5,, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC-2, CS/DO,

FR-4, FI 5, IW, FUR-6, DCI, DDP, ADDP, CS/RF TDCS-314/01961-72
DATE DISTRIBUTED PRECEDENCE
24 MARCH 1972 X ROUTINE

DISSEMINATION BASED ON (FLD. APT. PROJ.)

WH/REG1 F/JANTEL 2 F/BC/R2 TX-1534
WH/RR 1 F/F/R 2 CA/INT 1 EVNEND
TH/FILE/7DR 2 (EVEND-1)
WH/CA Ca/B41 LIAISON:
FR/7/H 10/WH/3/V
EVALLATION REQUESTED STATE CABLE SEC
OF ADKT Ca/B41 NAVY Ait -W
HANDUNG INSTRUCTIONSince I a spacapriate space. List electrical addressees.
REQUESTED STATE

OTHER
CABLE SEC OTHER RECOMMEND EXO NO FOREIGN DISSEM

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT
MADE AVAILABLE DCI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED FOR PORT AU PRINCE, PARIS, SANTO DOMINGO,

SHOW IW CARACAS, MEXICO CITY, OTTAWA

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TO

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB
:
USIB PERSONAL ATIN
ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LIAISON
25772 CO 032

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

Kiara Xianusm
C/WH/7/RP
CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET but Hopkins
(When Filled b C/WH/RR
COPY NO.
IK-2 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS Late: 201- 357029 (Cemend
Joseph Charl

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
PORT AU PRINCE 967
DATE: 6 AUGUSZ 19TO
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: RELEASE OF POLITICAL PRISONERS

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
PORT AU PREDICE シーン
DATE: 8 MAY 1970
CLASSIFICATION: LEATTED OFFICIAL USE
SUBJECT: MEASURES TAKEN BY COH AGAINST ALLEGED
CONSPIEATORS

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
PORT AU PRISCE 546
DATE: 8 ΜΑΙ1970
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: COMFISCATION ASSETS CLEMARD JOSEPH
CHABLES

Cable Secretariat Dissemination

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Total Copies
Secret

Advance Copy Issued Slotted Reproduction Of Copy Prohibited

Section To What 8 7 52 FH 70

Secret 2316222 May 78 cite port au prince 6879
Director
Mar 079292
1. According Morning Press & May, Legislative Chamber
Passed Decree 7 May Which Stripped Following 1. sons Of
Haitian Citizenship and Confiscated Their Goods and Chattels;
Clemard Joseph Charles, Clemenceau Prosper, Alphonse Lahens,
and Kesher Blain. Stated Reasos For Decree Was That These
Persons Were Accomplices Of Rebel Coast Guardsmek. This
Decree Essentially Same As One Passed 27 April According
Dentical Treatment To Coastguardsmen.

2. Palace Also Arrounced That It Would Kot Proceed.
With Extradition Proceedings Against Coastguardsker But Would
Judge Them In Absentia. This Action Follcyed Rote Received
By Embassy On 7 May Withdrawing Earlier Request For
Extr Ad It Ion.

3. Ret Effect These Actions Lends Credence To Impression
That Haitian Govt Prepared Act In Outwardly Legal Way In
Dealing With Rebellion. Omnone Hand, Rexcval Of Citizenship
And Confiscation Of Property Leaves Families Destitute Which
Probably Apple Object Lesson To Others Considering Rebellion

Secret
Charles 201

Cable Secretariat Dissemination

Classified Message
Secret

Advance Copy Slotted
Page Two Port Au Prince 6379 Secret
While Avoiding Adverse Publicity Engendered By Wholesale
Arrests And Killings In Past. On Other, Withdrawal Of
Extrad It Ion Request Probably Done In Recognition Of Fact
That U.S. Would Not Honor Request And Thus Needless
Confrontation With U.S. Avoided.

4. Is Both Respects, These Moves Represent Much More
Moderate Response Than Had Been True In Past. While They
Sugeest Duvalier May Be Mellowing With Passing Years,
Inclined Believe That They Prompted More By His Belief That
His Position Sufficiently Solid To Make More Drastic
Measures Uneccessary Tempered By Motion That Such Measures
Right Provone Additional Rebellions. Thus Duvalier Would
Appear Once Again To Have Struck Yorkasle Political Balance
Betveen Various Contending Forces And Factions In His
Entourage.

5. On Personal Side, Frayne's Life Somewhat
Complicated By Fact That Charles Was His Landlord And Effect
Of Confiscation Order Remains To Be Seen.

6. No File. GP-1.
Secret

TRANSMITTAL CLASSIFICATION
OF SECRET
TDCS INFORMATION REFORT

ORIG BERYL E BACKMAN

UNIT WH/7/HAITI/REPORTS ROUTING
EXT. 4222 1
DATE 7 MAY 1970 2
CONF: WH 15 3
CA 5, CA PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, FI/D, IW

DATE DISTRIBUTED PRECEDENCE

7 MAY 1970 X ROUTINE
BASED ON (FLD. EPT PROLJ
DISSEMINATION
PORT AU PRINCE 6870,6871
WH/REG 1 WH 7/Ht 7 (IN 075915, 075925)
WH/FI 2 MH7 DR 1 HTP-1406, 1405
WH/CA 1 MH SDOM 1 EVMISER (EVMISER-8)
WH/7/R 1 WH PACY (CINCSO) LIAISON: *
REF LANT #

EVALUATION
REQUESTED STATE ARMY NAVY AIR

OF

HANDUNG INSTRUCTIONS NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
: R OISON

C/WH/7/R

CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET Rob If Rieti
C/WH/R
COPY NO.

Charles 201-357.29

Intelligence Information Report
WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

Classfied by Recorded Reporting Officer. Exampe frora General Declassificerups Schedule of E.O. 1:652 Exemption Cotegory 13:11
Imraasible to determine date of euromatic arclassification.

DIRECTORATE OF NO FOREIGN DISSEN PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES
OPERATIONS
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET REPORT NO. FIR LT-313/01268-74
DATE DISTR. 18 October 1974

COUNTRY Haiti

DOI Early October 1974

SUBJECT Transfer of Political Prisoner Clemard Joseph Charles to
Port-au-Prince General Hospital.

ACQ 15 October 1974 FIELD NO.

SOURCE A reliable source fron a Haitian exile leader who is well
educated and who has a wide variety of contacts in Haitian
exile groups. The exile was aware that his information
would reach the U.S. Government.

1. Clemard Joseph Charles, former president of
the Commercial Bank of Haiti who has been held political
prisoner since April 1970 on charges of plotting against the
government, was recently transferred from jail to the general
hospital in Port-au-Prince. Charles is said to be dying of
cirrhosis of the liver and was transferred to the hospital on
orders of Madame Simone Ovide Duvalier, mother of
Haitian President Jean Claude Duvalier.

2. Doctors recommended that Charles be sent abroad for
proper medical treatment but me. Duvalier authorized his
transfer only to the local hospital. According to close
relatives, this occurred only after Minister of Interior and
Defense Paul Blanchettold the President and his
mother that he would refuse to become involved in this case
and would not sign any papers required of him as Minister
of Interior certifying that Charles had died in prison.
Relatives of Charles still intend to press for his removal fron
the country.

3. Field Dissen: Sent to Port-au-Prince.

:

:
5432
docom contrasi CRS
For Field Distrybution see final paragrap

SECRET
fclassi Reanon)

STATE OCI FBI

CI/OP/A 1 CLASSIFIED BY 010116 TX-1853
LA/ER NP(EVMEND-1)
LA/CAR/HT 3
FIRLT-313/01268
LA/PAP TOTALE

OPS/INT 1, PS/EG 1, LA 4 (4) CI 2 OBJ:KID COORDINATme RELEASING
VG:1h
LIAISON RH:ER
FORM
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS 5) Club 201-357029
201

Political Prisoner
in Hospital

Clémart Joseph Charles was taken
from the National Penitentiary in Port
au-Prince to Haiti's General Hospital.
The former Duvalier banker has been
jailed since isil "for political reasons"
No proper trial was held.

Mr. Charles is suffering from an
acute liver infection and the physi-
cians attending him have warned that
he will die unless he's allowed to tra-
vel abroad for special treatment.

This isn't the first time Mr. Char-
les was taken from his cell to a hos-
pital. Last year he was rushed to
Haiti's military hospital for treatment
of the same disease.

Mrs. Charles has been allowed to
visit her husband.

This is the first time the Duvalier
regime has acted half humanely with a
political prisoner. It's been pointed
out that Marie-Denise Duvalier Domi-
nique, a friend of Mr. Charles, has
often interceded for him.

Army chief-of-staff Jean-Baptis-
te Hilaire will soon be replaced, say
military sources in Port-au-Prince.
His likely replacement? Col. Roger
St. Albain.

On a lighter note, the General ran
for cover on September 22 while there
was a review on the Palace grounds
to commemorate Duvalier's "election"
in 1957. Accidentally the loaded auto-
matic wezpen of a railitiaman went off
Many officials, General Hilaire among
them, scrambled for protection, Jean-
Claude, his mother and their body-
guard General Gracia Jacques were
trembling, but they kept standing, says
a-source that was standing close to
them.

201 357029
Haiti Cloverrateni
4-110x 74
Climaid CHARLES
301

14-00000
 DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
 PORT AU PRINCE 1630
 DATE: 28 NOVEMBER 1972
 CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
 SUBJECT: PRESIDENT GRANTS CLEMENCE TO 89
 PRISONERS

TDCS OF REPORT SECRET
(When Filled in)
ORIG BETTY A. VAZQUEZ EN
UNTI
EXT.
WH/7/HAITI/REPORTS
4178/1528
DATE 24 MARCH 1972
CONF WH-20
ROUTING
1 #178
2
3
CA 5,, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC-2, CS/DO,
FR-4, FI 5, IW, FUR-6, DCI, DDP, ADDP, CS/RF TDCS-314/01961-72
DATE DISTRIBUTED X ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE
24 MARCH 1972 BASED ON (FLD. APT. PROJ.)
DISSEMINATION
WH/REG1 F/JANTEL 2 F/BC/R2 TX-1534
WH/RR 1 F/F/R 2 CA/INT 1 EVNEND
TH/FILE/7DR 2 (EVEND-1)
WH/CA
Ca/B41 LIAISON:
FR/7/H 10/WH/3/V 2
EVALUATION Ca/B41 Ca/B41
REQUESTED NAVY
OF Ait

STATE Ca/B41
ARMY
HANDUNG INSTRUCTIONSince I a spacapriate space. List electrical addressees.
CABLE SEC
OTHER
RECOMMEND EXO NO FOREIGN DISSEM

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT
MADE AVAILABLE DCI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED FOR PORT AU PRINCE, PARIS, SANTO DOMINGO,

SHOW IW CARACAS, MEXICO CITY, OTTAWA

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TO

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB
:
USIB PERSONAL ATIN
ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LIAISON
25772 CO 032

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

Kiara Xianusm
C/WH/7/RP
CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET but Hopkins
(When Filled b C/WH/RR
COPY NO.

IK-2 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS Late: 201- 357029 (Cemend
Joseph Charl
