14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CLA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE-TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 100-5-1
INCLUSIVE DATES: AUG. 62- DEC. 63

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY MATERIAL

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000

Pre-dates
HSCA request

(all 3rd Agency)

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED. 
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL 
SECRET
SVIRU

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
DC/03/JPriebe
EXTENSION
NO
3441
DATE: 30 July 1963
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE
OFFICER'S INITIALS
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
30/7
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
1.	DO/SR
2.	DO/SAT
3.	SR/CI/BBright
4.	Joon
AUG 8
5.	
2- This information was sent to CI Staff recently and has probably been forwarded to you for reply. Thought you might be able to use this extra copy.
6.	CSR/CI/K
7.	Dolores
OR
8.	EE/G/CE- Wagen
19/8
9.	SR/CI/K
10.	
to note in memo... Schroeden apparent BIND approach a subsequent BOIC, aussach. Cousi? Felfe: how about you 1168?
11.	SR/CI/A
12.	Joon
15.	RID/AN
RI/MIS

RID/files
8 to 9: Looks like RIS was on him first, but they have sent Felfe (or another) at him for simy recruitment attityet. this file they
610
AISE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL 
INTERNAL 
USE ONLY. UNCLASSIFIED

100-5-1
14-00000
CLOFET SENSITIVE
5/1057/
5 July 1963

Chief, CI Utaff/L
2 C 48 Pro

Chief, Contact Division, CO
Attempted RIS Penetration of Bell Telephone Laboratories - SL-10612

1. Attached are two memoranda, dated 21 June 1963, from our New York Field Office concerning apparent Ris interest in Manfred R. Behroeder and Donald E. Thomas, Bell Pelephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey. We believe this informa tion should be passed to the FBI immediately. We would appreciate being advised the date this information is forarded to the Bureau.
2. For your information, permission to brief Dr. Schroeder prior to his trip to the USSR ves rogssted by our New York Office but refused by FI Staff. In view of his employment, however, and previous CD/00 contacts with him, FI recommended ha be provided with a strong defensive and realities briefing.
3. Further inquiry may be directed to Mrs. Shirley Stetson, CB/08, Depart Branch, Room 413, 1717 8 Street, H. W., extension 2268.

Reales As stated above
SBStetson/m
CO DD
FIA 1100-5-1

K. M. AIRCRAFT
: 30 JULY 63

CS COPY
100-5-1

SECRET SENSITIVE 111 - in

14-00000

SECRET

'UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO:	Chief, Contact Division
Attn:	Mc Connell/Czajkowski/Lincoln Staff
DATE:	1 July 1963

FROM:	Chief, New York Office
SUBJECT: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

Ref: NY Reports 2988-3 and 2989-3

1. We thought the attached reports would be of interest to Lincoln Staff from a Soviet realities standpoint. We also felt that they should be brought to the attention of Division management because the M.O. out- lined therein is becoming a major factor in dealing with sources who have contact with Sovbloc nationals. It has been our experience that the type of activity outlined has been on a marked increase, particularly since the establishment of the KGB 10th Directorate. Although such activity by Sov legals is taking place throughout the continental U.3., undoubtedly its greatest impact is being felt in the New York and Washington, D.C. areas because of the large Soviet Government establishments in both of these cities. For this reason it would seem imperative that both WAFO and NYFO be extremely vigilant for such activity in companies and insti- tutions with which they are dealing in order that it may be recognized in its earliest stages and appropriate CI/CE countermeasures instituted. In order to assist other offices in this respect, we plan to write in the near future an article for the Division Newsletter, outlining some of our experiences along these lines.
2. We were somewhat disappointed in CI Staff's reaction to our recent request for assistance in defensive briefing of the subject of one of the attached reports. It seems to be quite clear now that our original assumption concerning his being R.I.S. targeted was quite correct and that there is a strong likelihood that his current trip behind the Curtain vill be utilized by the opposition for provocation and/or an actual recruitment attempt. We wonder in future cases of this nature exactly what support we may expect from Angleton's shop. Although we feel that we have a fair capability for handling such matters here in New York, we do admit that, at least on this one, we would have felt slightly more comfortable had a CI specialist been along, if for no other reason than to preclude any possible Monday morning quarterbacking by the "old pros."

SECRET
10612
Embeded we astseatis downgrading an
:

14-00000

SECRET
-2-
Subject: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs
3. Judging by the attached material, it would appear that, despite established Bell policy (see our 16 May memorandum re Case 39,790), the opposition has seen fit to deflower at least two of Bell's scientific virgins. We serjously wonder at this point just how many other Bell people might be in the same boat. Perhaps, as a result of all this, some representation by Bell management to the KGB will be forthcoming, spelling out to that organization, as was spelled out to our own, estab- lished company policy pertaining to such matters. In any event, it would appear that at least one or two Bell scientists, and there are probably more, have been giving the R.I.S. more cooperation and reporting than the Agency. Let's hope that in the near future Bell management takes some effective steps to rectify this rather ludicrous, and patently dangerous, situation.

JAY B. L. REEVES
Attachments: M Reports 2988-3
and 2989-3
Chagle/ng
10612
SECRET

14-00000
Memorandum

SECRET
TO:	Chier, Contact Division.
Attn:	Support (Shirley Stetson)
DATE: 26 June 11

FROM:	Chief, New fork Office

SUBJECT: Apparent RIS Interest in anfred A. Schroeder: (201-734194)
Bell Telephone La

1. At 0930-1230 hours 14 June, Manfred A. Schroeder of Bell Labs received a strong defensive briefing in correction with his June - July trip to the USSK and Bulgaria (see our 7 ay Coordination Out- line for subject). During Schroeder's briefing, Nagle elicited from him that prior to a trip to the USSR in 1959 he had been con- tacted by an individual who represented himsel se a West Germaτ Intelligence Officer. More important, we also learned that, ut about the same time, RIS cultivation of Schroeder apparently began.
2. Concerning the West German approach, Schroeder indicated that his mother, who resides in Hamburg, wa, telephoned in 1959 by an individual who claimed to be an old acqur.intance of her son's and who was interested in contacting hin concerning employment in the US. The caller left a phone number and said that he would ap- preciate il if Schroeder could call him neze time he was in Haaturg. Schroeder's mother relayed the message to her con, and, as requested, he telephoned the caller just prior to his ン USSR junket. The individual he called identified himself as a West German intelligence Officer and said that he would like to ofer as coon as possible. Schroeder agreed. When they met, the individual in question (Schroeder does not recali his name) presented suitable credentiale and expressed interest in Senroeder's trip to the USSR. According to Schroeder's account, the West German Intelligence Officer gave him the old "keep your eyes and ears open" pitch, and old him that he would contact him in the first West German city in which he touched down after his USSR trip. Schroeder was conducted in Stuttgart promptly after returning to Germany from the US on his way back to the US. Because of his US employment and the fact that Bell paid for his trip, Schroeder became very apprehensive about any further contact with the West German service and at the time of the call indicated that he had nothing to say and wanted no further contact. Other than the cursory examination of credentials (us reported above), Schroeder made no attempt to establish the bona fides of the German who made the approach. We pointed out to Schroeder the unlikely possibility that the approach might not have been Lone fide and might, in fact, have been a provo- cation.
* Cogheytached.
i
SECRET
SENSITIVE 10612
Exclude: a

14-00000
SENSITIVE

Apparently ..5. tivation of an
prior to this incider. nt. According to ht, ha
ceived what appeared to be a routine invitation vis
acoustics Ocilities in osco an lengrad in a
connection with the invita wrote 2 Sav that
that during his visit he would like to m
a Sow acoustics engineer who was very interest:
and ind done sever Russian trainlong of M
a result of this corresponience, Scaronder receives
home couple days prior depart
fro
n an individual who de his
In New York. The caller told e that as
t to the State
of the 20th Congress
Like to deliver s. The 
Schroeder in a вал
which he ha
thor corida 109
Cally agres to inves 
up the invitation.
:
2:1
Schroeder Lavi the
favtar se the
the latter decid, 
wer, that 042
an area closed to trave Sop  event,
the Sov arranged to send
Chatham, New Jersey, and at that th
for her husband.
Schroder said that his to the SER was quite
routine and that he could recull nothing bat 
salary happ during the trip. Dring the vi., 
speaks fluent German, acted as his hot and was
continually.
  
5.Someting an der received a call
one evening from Vladimir Mentifier
sentative of Astors, a 10
Samo la Punduev hai just completed a visit to ew 
-Secore leaving the
city had asked him to deliver a present to for, 
the phone call. Volgin insisted on delivering 
in person, and the two made arrangenes ta
following week in Maniattan. This bagas series 

SECRET
SENSITIVE
10612
14-00000
SENSITIVE

Subject: Apparent Literes in anfred Scin d",
Telephone La

or more contacts with, at a
received a cute from Volg stati
a trip ng to the USSH. der that we could a
there. lucidentally, er aly other contact
in 1962 when he met ain in Copenhagen at ap: 10

when
.
6. Schroeder sald act, a
to him were to his he and
pay phones.
lunches and dinners in Manhattan,
Meeting, theater, & entertainment in ach
homes. Selleders tha
his contact with Volgin. the his
introduced to any other

unclassified technical papers
engineer.
that.
at point
at one
with
An article on
thei
Journal.

In retros
that
security
at
8.0
of h
about his relationship and
they
7
of
10
in
80
to
4

to
at
8.
4.
that
a
A
another factor which obviously
her has
the best
that her the
the

in with
In
an
1.
8

an
805
the

they
his

and
and
an

to
1.
1
SECRET
V
SENSITIVE 10612
r

14-00000
SECRET
SENSITIVE

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder,
Bell Telephone labs

10. After Schröder visits the USSR on his current trip, he plans to fly to Sofia to spend approximately a week with his wife's family there. Schroeder had not mentioned the Bulgarian visit in outlining his original itinerary to Bob Martin of this office, there- fore, it vas not mentioned in Schroeder's Coordination Outline.
11. All of the above would seem to indicate quite strongly that Schroeder, as we originally surmised, has been targeted by R.1.3. In briefing Schroeder, we ran through some of the typical entrapment situations fabricated by the opposition, e.g., women, homosexuals, purchase of drugs for Sov citizens, black market activity, acceptance of letters to mail outside the USSR, commitments to disaffected Sovs, etc. In addition, we stringently admonished Schroeder against any notetaking or photography which could in any way be construed as com- promising. We also alerted Schroeder to the fact that some attempt might be made to use his wife's family as leverage in a recruitment attempt. In this connection, we pointed out to Schroeder that there was a strong likelihood that the R.I.S. and/or Bulgarian service would make an approach to him during his forthcoming visit to Sofia. An approach in Bulgaria would give the Sovs an opportunity for disavowal and also would provide the proper setting for maximum utilization of relatives. When Schroeder mentioned that his sister-in-law, FNU Mensckik, had indicated several times in the past that she would like to leave Bulgaria, we strongly admonished him against making any com- mitments to her, pointing out that she may possibly be co-opted by the opposition. We told Schroeder that any representations to gain an-exit visa for his sister-in-law should be channeled through the US Legation in Sofia. Schroeder was told that, if any pressure were applied concerning his wife's family, his best reaction would probably be a noncommittal, "I'll think it over when I get home:" All in all, we alerted Schroeder as best we could to the opposition M.O. and pre- pared him on how best to avoid some of the not so obvious pitfalls which might be in store for him.
12. Prior to our briefing of Schroeder, Bob Martin alerted Bell management to all of the ramifications of Schroeder's travel behind the Curtain. The management was informed by Martin that ve felt it our obligation to point out to them the strong possibility that Schroeder had been targeted in order that they would have all of the facts avail- able before signing off on his trip.

SECRET
SENSITIVE
10612

14-00000
SECRET
SENSITIVE

-5-
Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder,
Bell Telephone Labs
13. Assessment of Schroeder: Subject, a very accomplished scientist, heads up all acoustics research at Bell. He reads Kussian and is fluent in German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, and English. He impresses us as being a rather savvy, discreet, cooperative, mature, stable, well motivated individual. We attri- bute Schroeder's apparent lack of discretion in his dealings with the Bovs more to the subtlety of the Sov approach than to his own naivete. It has been our experience that most US businessmen and scientists are very susceptible and vulnerable to the opposition approach mainly due to somewhat of a lack of realistic public education. concerning contacts with Bovbloc nationals. We feel that Schroeder's degree of cooperativeness with US services has been enhanced considerably by his feeling that he has really been taken for a ride by the opposition.
Incidentally, when we asked subject for permission to release this information with source disclosure to the FBI, he was at first some- what apprehensive and expressed the desire to talk it over with one of his Bell superiors before he made any commitments. He finally agreed, however, when we convinced him that it would certainly be in his best interest to get on record with the FBI as soon as possible. Most of his apprehension about the FBI seemed to be attributable to the fact that he has just been granted US citizenship and, in addition, 18 now somewhat concerned that his activities with the Sove in some way may effect his security status which in turn could be very detri- mental to his career.

Based on our limited contact with Schroeder, we have every reason to believe that he would be suitable for operational use, should the Bureau choose to pursue such a course.
14. We would strongly recommend that all of the above be passed to the Bureau ASAP in order that that organization may effect contact with Schroeder and provide him with proper guidance concerning any further approaches by Sor or Bloc nationals in this country.

Magle/ng
JAY BY REEVES
CENCITTUE
SECRET 10612

14-00000

1.	DATE, L. & PLACE OF BIRTH : May 13 1907, Hanover Township, Pa
  U. S.  
  2.	CITIZENSHIP : U.S.A. by birth.  Has not received a letter from   Defense Department.  C/12/61.  
3. ADDRESS :19 Gates street
  Murray Hill, NJ 
4. Place of Employment and Position:
  Bell Telephone laboratories
  Murray Hill, New Jersey 
  Head of Acoustics Research
5. Itinerary : subject will tentatively Depart US 19 May,  Arriving Moscow 20 May.  He will spend two weeks visiting  various laboratories in Moscow and Leningrad at the invitation  of Dr.Ovisianikov, deputy chairman, State committee for  Coordination of scientific Research. If arrival date is  wholly acceptable to the soviets, subject will make the trip  in June or July
6. reason for trip:  During November 1958, while in Europe, subject  received an invitation from the USSR Academy of Science  to visit various Soviet Acoustic laboratories. Because  of a tight schedule at the time subject declined the  invitation.  In early March of this year he received the  invitation from Orishianikov Mentioned above. During the trip, Subject will discuss with Soviet counterparts various aspects of voice communications research, electro acoustics, and architectural acoustics. He will also visit Soviet laboratories involved in research in these fields.
7. Security status  subject was granted secret clearance by Radintova Air Material Command 30 July 1936 in anticipation of his being used on classified project at Bell laboratories also a mama check on subject pending 
8. Previous Intelligence Activities In 1959 subject was contacted twice by NY. field Office for inbriefing after a trip to the USSR . At the time he was generally cooperative,

10612
!

14-00000
but somewhat apprehensive . He was again contacted in lyue for worlofing subsequent to a Us visit of a Soviet counterpart. 

9 Relatives or Close Friends in Denied Areas subject's wife was born in sofia, Bulgaria . he now reportedly holds Us . citizenship . In November 1961 subject managed to arrange for imigration to the us of his mother-in-law, traval Mensclick after a short stry in tale country , howrever, she returned to her home 1: sofia in March 1563 in addition to his mother-in-las, proovanbly there are other relatives of his vite stil living in Bulgaria

10 Extent of Foolaya Prato Panded: -18 1999  subject vialeed acoustics Lacazeeries la Roccer and Leningrad

11 Ability of Don't: he reads Russian end to fluent is Games , Persia, Romainia, Italian, Etek cod Ragi

12 of real Anna: Bearing vas comment liaited re Lexicasais vita and joos ha has given every indication of being dieurces , security sensatous , mere , and comparative

13 Peter the Fotob be will not be briefed on ogeratios of any klad. ho photography or leariainating note taking vil be requested ef hin

14 A pod Radisson dating sajeet vill ressive routine defensive cod Sovolos realities briefing 

15 а яка в Dorama briefing vill be condasted by Ca/00 Baw Lark Hold Orrios personnel .

16 Dating of reject's trip will be funded by his cagany

17 .
Men at 15 y 1963.

14-00000
#43
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
SECRET
SENSITIVE

TO: Chief, Contact Division
Attn: Support (Shirley Stetson)
DATE: 26 June 1963
00-A-3266992
FROM: Chief, New York Office

SUBJECT OF Apparent RIS Interest in Donald E. Thomas,
Bell Laboratories
SCIENTIST
BRILLABORATUAIOS. CAT
1. During routine debriefing of Donald E. Thomas of Bell Labora- tories in connection with his recent USSR visit to attend the Popov Society Meeting, 5-14 May, Moscow (see NYOR 8878 for Coordination Out- line) subject mentioned having had recent contact with a Soviet Govern- ment representative in this country. The Soviet in question identified Chimself to Thomas as Gleb Aleksi Pavlov and gave his address as 1216 First Avenue, Manhattan.
2. According to Thomas, his initial contact with Pavlov took place in late March following the International Convention and Show of the I.B.Ε.Ε., 25-29 March, New York City (see Case 39843). At the convention Thomas became friendly with two Soviet counterparts in attendance, A. V. Tiel and Anatole Trutka, both of whom Thomas invited to his home for a social visit during their US stay. When the Sovs departed for home following the convention, Thomas saw them off at New York International Airport. It was at the airport that he first met Pavlov, who apparently was seeing off all of the Sov I.E.E.E. delegates. After the Sov delegation had departed, Thomas and Pavlov returned to Manhattan together and, on parting, exchanged addresses.
3. A couple of weeks after their initial meeting, Pavlov tele- phoned Thomas at his home and told him that Tiel and Trutka had asked him to send their warmest regards to Thomas and thank him for the hospitality which he showed them during their trip to this country. During the conversation, Pavlov expressed an interest in renewing his acquaintance with Thomas, and suggested that he would enjoy visiting him at his home in Madison, New Jersey. Thomas said that he would enjoy seeing Pavlov, but that he was currently preparing to leave on a trip to the USSR and Europe and was not scheduled to return to the US until late May. Thomas suggested that, in view of this, perhaps early June would be a good time for them to plan on getting together. Pavlov replied that he, himself would be in the USSR then, but would contact Thomas when he returned in early July. Incidentally, Pavlov's

* copy attached
SECRET
SENSITIVE 10612
680071
Excleted tron astamate
:

14-00000
SECRET
SENSITIVE

-2-
Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Donald E. Thomas, Bell Laboratories
phone call to Thomas was made on a pay phone. In fact, when the opera- tor cut in for overtime, Thomas called Pavlov back at the pay phone. Thomas mentioned that he possibly might have the phone number written down somewhere.

4. Soon after the phone call from Pavlov, Thomas called John McVicker of the State Department and inquired if any clearance of Pavlov's proposed trip to his home in Madison would be necessary. McVicker told Thomas that any such clearances were Pavlov's worry and that he need not be concerned about same.
5. During his recent trip to the USSR, it would appear that Thomas vas exposed to two incidents which possibly could have been of opposition fabrication. One involved an approach by a Soviet interpreter by the name of FNU Petrov, who took Thomas aside and asked him if he could do him a personal favor by getting him a sub- scription to National Geographic Magazine for which he, Petrov, would reimburse Thomas in rubles. Thomas politely refused.

6. The other incident involved Thomas being photographed with Lan attractive young female Interpreter, Ludmilla Oshkina. According to Thomas, when one of the Soviets in their party vas about to take a picture of him standing next to Ludmilla, another individual stand- ing nearby vas pushed out of the way apparently so that he would not be included in the photograph. In addition, Ludmilla attempted to strike an affectionate pose with Thomas for the photograph by slipping her arm through his. Thomas claims to have pushed her arm avay just as the photo was being snapped.
:
7. Assessment of Thomas: Subject strikes us as being extremely naive and unrealistic. He appears to be more apprehensive about his dealings with CIA than his dealings with Soviets. In fact, when Thomas was asked if he would mind if a tape recorder vere used for debriefing, he became very nervous and expressed a fear that, if such a tape vere made, perhaps the Soviets might gain access to it and use it against him in some way at a future date.
Thomas had an outline in his own handwriting of the sessions of the Popov Society Meeting. When we asked for a photostat of same, he again expressed misgivings and indicated that he would prefer to have a typewritten copy prepared for us instead of a copy in his own hand- vriting because he vas fearful that it might fall into Soviet hands.

1
SECRET
SENSITIVE 10612
:

14-00000
SECRET
SENSITIVE
-3-
Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Donald E. Thomas,
Bell Laboratories
We inquired of Thomas why he had not mentioned Pavlov to us during our defensive briefing of him before his trip. He replied rather nebulously that it was his understanding that it was company policy that our oniy function in seeing him before his trip was to give him a defensive brief- ing, and that, since no debriefing was involved at the time, he felt no obligation to volunteer the information concerning Pavlov.

It is our opinion that Thomas's obvious naivite, apparent lack of sophisti- cation, and extreme apprehension concerning dealings with our Agency would make him most unsuitable from the standpoint of operational utilization by the Bureau.

8. We would strongly recommend that all of the above be passed to the Bureau ASAP in order that that organization may effect contact with Thomas in time to provide him with proper guidance concerning any further approaches by Pavlov or other Sov legals in US.

JAY B. L. REEVES
Hiagle/ng

SECRET
SENSITIVE 10612
14-00000

SECRET

1 May 1963

SUBJECT : Coordination outline - Donald E. Thomas, Bell Labs

FROM New York Field Office

Following is coordination outline for D. B. Thomas. Dr. W. O. Baker requested that Thomas be given defensive briefing by us before going behind Curtain. As you are already aware, Baker is Vice President at Bell Labs and member of President's Scientific Advisory Council and President's Intelligence Board.

1. Name : Donald Edgar Thomas
2. Date and Place of Birth : 18 May 1907, Hanover Township, Penna.
3. Home and Address: 4 Fairvice Avenue, Madison, New Jersey
4. Place of employment and position: Bell Labs, Murray Hill, New Jersey Electronics Engineer.
5. Itinerary: subject departs 19 May for Moscow to attend 
Popov Society meeting, 5-14 May. Following Moscow meeting he will visit labs in Eastern Europe for approximately one week.
6. Mission and reason for trip: subject was invited to give paper at Popov resting by Academy of Sciences via I.Ε.Ε.Ε. (International Electronic and Electrical Engineers).
7. Security Status: No favorable NAC completion on oach subject dated @s 19.
8. Previous Intelligence Activities : subject we contacted by 02/09 1998-99 concerning intr en sevist sork in his field which he acquired from contacts with Soviet scientific counterparts attending international meeting in W. G.
9. Relatives oe close friends in denied areas: none .
10. Extent of previous trips to denied areas: none .
11. Analysis of Subject's Competences: Pa. State College, B.S., B.S., 19291 Columbia University, M.A., 1938, US Army Signal Corys, 1940-44 USAAF, 1944-461 en radio countermeasures, 1944-55; retired 14. Col. USAFR number (Civilian) penal en Electronic Goustarasamures R&D Board, Page of Patense, 1948-53.
12. Nature of personal assessment: Earing car limited relationship with subject, he has given every indication of being diserest, Security concious, cooperative, sell arsimtel, sincere, is well regarded in his particular field of competency.
13. Nature of matkative briefing proposed and reptressats to levied: subject will not be briefed on operations of any kind. No photography or inarintasting note taking will be requested of him.
14. Defensive and realities briefings: subject will receive routine Aptive and Evolos realities briefing.
15. Funding for trips: subject's trip will be fended by his company. Briefing offices and partiatpenses Briefing will be cominuted by Eevo New York Office paremmal.
17. Gcordiastien Osadlinos: 8 may 1563.

SECRET
10612
:

14-00000
1637
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Wanal Defense tei
This materiel contaige Inforng the
and 83, USC
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY USSR

SUBJECT Alleged House Arrest of Soviet
Baientist, L Chistovich
DATE OF INFO
July 63
PLACE &
DATE ACO July 63
(x)
NO PAGES 
REFERENCES:
(

THIS IS LINEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizen, professor in a ti university.
He is an authority on acoustics.

1. I attended the Third International Congress on Acoustics. 1-8 30pt 59, Stuttgart, West Germany.

2. While at this Congress I met a Soviet female scientist, L Chistovich, who is connected with the Pavlov Institute of Physiology, Leningrad. One day during the Congress I took a walk in the Black Forest with L Chistovich and another Soviet scientist. After a short time, the other Boviet scientist excused himself saying that he had to rejoin his colleagues.
3. In June 1963 Manfred Schroeder, an acoustician with bell Telephone Laboratories, was in the USSR. On his return to the US he told me that he had heard while in the USSR that L Chistovich, on her return from the 1959 Stuttgart Congress, had been placed under house arrest. He also said that he had seen L Chistovich while he was in the USSR, ami he had asked her whether it was true that she hat been placed urmer house arrest on returning from the Stuttgart Congress. He said Chistovich's only reply was to blush.

4. I suspect that the individu who repres L Chistorich to the scien was Yuriy Pavlovich Lysanov. He in connected with the Ascetics Institute in Moscow. He publishes very little and his conduct has seemed corange to me. He was in the United States 11. 196-1997. 1 murped that the fact that L Chistovich took a walk with me alone may wel have been the reason she was placed under house arrest.
To - end

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

ARMY
NAVY
AIR
FBI
Fe

AFC
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
devagrating and
declassification
FORMATION REPORT
and
INFORMATION REPORT
NO DISSEM ABROAD
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ESPIONAGE LAWS, TITLE 18, U.S.C. SECTIONS 793 AND 794. THE TRANSMISSION OR THE REVELATION OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TO AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
The reestriction of dineesination shews above applies to United States employees and active duty allitary personnel within the intellgence competen of the member agencies who anst ort access the information However, unless specifically CID 1/1,say be revealed to those components of the departments and agencies of the US Government directly IT SHALL NOT DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS AND be disseminated to organizations

14-00000

Frit report dated 220.7.23 flush. &.c.)
Mime for Secuting, 1470 Special Committee
18) report dated 25 art. 62 / WaL D.C)
Re: rechange of Enformation Ripailing fore Suteikite Diplomats
FBI report dated 3) Est. 62 (4.4.4)

FS1 Mense dated 24 jan. 63 (Wrch. DC.)
Re: Soviet-Alle Intelligence Activities in 0.5.
FB) Report dated 24 Feb 13 (Ward. D.C.) filid (E) 15-1347
De: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in 11.5.
FB) Report dated 21 mand 13 (trad.&C)16(E)65-63478
Servee
Re: Sommetable Intelligence Antibiotics in ll -50
Report dated 25 April 163 (anh. D.C) Ailid (E)65-
Re: Sonich Bloc Datelligence Activitice in

FB) Report dated 24 may 63 (lish.
65-63478
14.5.
fitect (E) 65-13478
Re: Soviet Blood Intelligence Mestivities in 4.5
20 June 63 (Wash. AC) files (E) 65-13478
FBI Report datat so june
Re:
63
Sonint-Blas Intelligence kotibitece in 1.5.
FB) Report dated 22 July 13 (Riach. D.C) filed(8) 65-63478
Sonist Bloc Intelligencel Activities in US
Report dated 19 tay 63 (Whsh. 100) fill (6) 65-63478
datenist-Bloc Intelligence ctivities in 1.5.
FBI
Re:
Re:
FB) Analysis datest 4 Sept 63 (Wash. Of).
Re: Sonist loe. Intelligence Ratiothes in 4.5

FBI Report dated 24 You. 63 (Wash D.C.)
Re: Unknown Subjects (tr); Observed Taking
Photographer or theortion of 1-5. Mirell
Station Wash. D.C.
FRl Report dated 2520. 63 (lish. De) fibd 4(5) 65-63478
Re