104-10178-10002 
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: POSADA, LUIS CLEMENTE 201-300985 VOL. IV
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE DATE 
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
8/16/78 PMON

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

Luis Clemente POSADA Carriles
201-300985

STATE DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS

DATE: 25 AUGUST 1977 FROM AMENBASSY CARACAS (CARACAS 8438)
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: GOV CHARGES "CUBANA AIRLINER: DEFENDANTS WITH MILITARY CRIMES

FROM AMENBASSY CARACAS
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
DATE: 9 MARCH 1977
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AND THE LETELIER ASSASSINATION
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL/NOFORN

FBI DOCUMENT
CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 8 JUNE 1977
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: SALVADOR ALDEREGULA; ESPIONAGE CUBA PANAMA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

FBI Document
Date: 15 February 1977
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CCORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)
NEUTRALITY MATTERS CUBA (ANTI-CASTRO).
No File Number

State Department Cable
Date: 22 January 1977
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CHARGE THAT POSADA IMPLICATED IN CIA PLOT TO KILL
CASTRO PUBLISHED
CARACAS 0680

SECRET
DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLL THING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FL IM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERS INS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOU-
MENT FROM 141CH THIS EXTRACT JAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATICY PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM 10/FILES.

POSADA CARRILES, LUIS 022-009-028
201-0300985 CIL-L-00445/76..
SEX M 23 DEC 76
P4
SUMMARY IF INFO TO FBI AND ARMY
INTELL-TEPRORIST PLOTTING BY CUBAN EXILES.
--

DATE 20 JUL 77 09526970

201-300985

SECPET E2 IMPOET CL BY 054979

SECIET
CORF

CIA

FILE

ACCARPE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/INTELLIGENCE DIVISIC", #132
U.S. ARMY INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FORT MEADE, MARYLAND//ATTN: MILA-52-4
CICL-0495-74
SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT
RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSCHINATION
AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.Y
SUBJECT: TERRORIST FLOTTING BY CUBAN EXILES: INFORMATION RELATING
TO ACTIVITIES OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARMAND RONTES Y
REFERENCES: CIOL-0424-16 OF 13 DECEMBER 1976, SUBJECT AS ADOVER
FIRCI-312/03635-76 OF 6 DECEMBER 1976, SUBJECT "COOPERATION
MAINTAINED BY CERTAIN DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS AND ANTI-CASTRO
CUBAN FXTLES."Y

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATIO!! WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO
ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOR SO CALLETYAN OF TITELEYRENCE ON FOREIGN
ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY. ACCORDING TO A
USUALLY RELIABLE DOMINICAN SOURCE WHO RECEIVED THE INFORMATION
FPOIL A DOMINICAN AIR FORCE COLONEL, U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARHAND

DAICI
0013:
UNII:
EXT:
'NKSCARLET-3/201
CIA
FILE

ECRET
C
Bb CIA DISSEM BY:
CONE: ARCI FILE
962167 PER
CONTES ATTENDED A MEETING OF ANTI-CASTRO CURAN EXILES IN
SANTO DOMINCO A CARLY NOVEMBER 1976 AT THE HONE OF A FORNER
SENATOR OF THE BATISTA GOVERNMENT. MONTES CAME TO THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC TO ACEUIRE DOMINICAN SUPPORT FOR THE "CRUSADE AGAINST
CASTRO AND NOTED THAT CUSAN EXILE'S IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND
DOMINICAN MILITARY AND CIVILIANS WERE WILLING TO COOPERATE. THE
LIAISON MAN BETWEEN THE VARIOUS ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES ES JUAN
COR JOSC) ANTONIO PRAT MIHO APPARENTLY RESIDES IN MIANI.
CHEADQUARTERS CONMENT: PRAT NAY POSSIBLY DE ANTONIO PRAT
BARROSO, A VETERAN OF THE BAY OF FIGS INVASION.34
2. ACCORDING TO THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE COLONEL, A NEETING
TOOK PLACE WHEN ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST
LEADER, STILL LIVED IN SANTO DOMINGO TO DISCUSS VARIOUS TERRORIST
PLANS TIC LATTER INCLUDED PLACING COMES ON CUBAN AIRCRAFT AND
AT CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS: SABOTAGING CUSAN AND SOVIETOS:
KIDNAPPING THE CUSAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONAL AND KILLING
HIGH-LEVEL CUBAN OFFICIAL CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ IN
LISBON (SICS. PARTICIPANTS AT THIS MEETING INCLUDED BOSCH AVILAS

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
COORDINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISTING OFFICE IS PROMISTLE
AUTENTICATIVE Omise
E2

SECRET
CO: INFO: FILE
CIA
912167

JUAN DUARDO PEREZ FRANCO, A CUBAN EXILES EX-BRIGADIER
GENERAL SALVADOR LLUBERES MONTAS, FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF
OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCES COLONEL ABREU (FNU> OF THE
DOMINICAN AIR FORCES JOSE COUB A DURRI (PHONETICS FERNANDO
MUNIZ. A DOMINICANT RAUL COR RUDEN) SLINDER. (PHONETICS
A DOMINICANS AND LUIS POSA COR PEZA OR POSARA
PETER COR PEDROJ NARTINEZ WAS MENTIONED AS A COORDINATOR
OF ONE OF THE PLANNED TERRORIST ACTS.Y

3. (FIELD COMMENT: AIR FORCE COLONEL ABRESU MAY BE EITHER
COLONEL JUAN DISLA APREU, COPIIMANDER OF THE NORTHERN ZONE.
OR GENERAL ELADIO MARNOLEJOS ABREU COMMANDER OF THE
SAN ISIDO AIR FORCE BASE WHO IS A CLOSE FRIEND OF FORMER GENERAL
LLUBERES MOITAS. FERNANDO MUNIZ IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL NITH THE
RIGHTIST DOMINICAN LABOR LEADER OF THIS NAME. CHEADQUARTERS
COTILIENT: SOJZ DADURKI IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL SITA JUAN JUSE
BUTTARI CRESPO, BORN 22 NOVENGER 1433, HAVANA, A VETERAN
OF THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. PETER MARTINDEZ NAY BE IDENTICAL
WITH PEDRO CELESTINA MARTINEZ GARCES. SORN 19 PAY 1924,

Unic:
CRG:
UNIT:
EXT:

AUTENTICATIVE Omise
