14-00000
104-10186-10021 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1-26
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
R-SE TO FILE NO.
FILE RI-SO RET. TO BRANCH
PER-SE.
24
ACTION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
FOTOL Force
SECRET
PERSONNotiPIED
FILE
ADVANCE COPY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FILE
UNIT
WH/GGS
KID COPY ......
......
......
FILE: VR, WH-8, CI/OPS, OS, FI, CELIC-2, FI/INT-2,
CI/DA
16-26
SECRET 191645Z CITE SAN SALVADOR 6756

JMVAVE INFO DIRECTOR
SAN SALVADOR 6727 (-32525)
REFS: A.

B. SAN SALVADOR 36711 (12.0433)
27
19 APB.67. 48874'
(SUBJECT REF A NOT YET LOCATED BY NATIONAL GUARD BUT
STATION WOULD LIKE AMMUG-1 TO STAND BY IF POSSIBLE FOR
THIS AND OTHER OPERATIONAL POSSIBILITIES INVOLVING DGI
TRAINED SALVADORANS KNOWN TO AMMIG-1.
04
2. AT OUR REQUEST JUSLOOP-1S HAS ORDERED ARREST OF 16-26
JOSE REHBERTO CARRILLO CALDERON (281-158959). STATION
PASSED CARRILLOS ADDRESS IN AHUACHAPAN. PLAN IS TO HAVE
04
CARRILLO BROUGHT TO ISOLATED NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS
IN SAN SALVADOR WHERE HE WILL BE INTERROGATED AND RE-
76-26-
CRUITMENT ATTEMPTED FOR JOINT OPERATION AGAINST POES.
3. ALEJANDRO GONEZ MONTANO (281-731265) IS SUBJECT
OF REF B RECRUITMENT INDUCEMENT LETTER. WAS ARRESTED
BY POLICE ON 29 MARCH 1967 FOR NOT POSSESSING LEGAL IDEN-
Maria
04
TIFICATION CARD. UNILATERAL AGENT JUMUD-13 CANNOT PROMISE
THAT GONEZ CAN BE DETAINED ANY LONGER SINCE LEGAL HEARING
HAS BEEN HELD AND HE IS TO BE RELEASED AS SOON AS RELATIVES
(20/05)

PAGE 2 SAN SALVADOR 6756 SECRET
16-26

:
ง.!.

POST NOMINAL BOND. IMINENT RELEASE EXPECTED. JUMUD-13
04
I SAID HE THOUGHT HE COULD ARREST GOMEZ AGAIN 15 DAYS AFTER
RELEASE AND HOLD HIM IN JAIL OVER WEEKEND TO ALLOW STATION
TO MAKE RECRUITMENT PITCH. JURUD-13, HOWEVER, NOT VERY
60
DEFINITE IN HIS OFFER AND SINCE HE HAS NOT BEEN THE MOST
16-26
EFFECTIVE AGENT IN THE PAST, STATION PREFERS COMPLETELY
UNILATERAL PITCH. AS SOON AS GOMEZ IS RELEASED AND -26
RELOCATED, WE WILL REQUEST AMMUG-1 PRESENCE SAN SALVADOR
TO MAXE UNILATERAL PITCH. IF IT BECOMES NECESSARY TO
FALL BACK ON JOINT RECRUITMENT PITCH IN JAIL, ARNUG-1'S
SERVICES WILL STILL BE NEEDED.

SECRET

ST
HINN

8/RS
