104-10048-10252 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECURITY INFORMATION

CONFIDENTIAL

From: BOGOTA Report No: TLB-1634 Local File No

No. of Pages: 2 No. of Enclosures: Memo

Report Made By: George S. Vinovich/Unt Approved By:

Distribution: Orally to:

By copy to:

Washington - 2 Caracas - 1

Guatemala City - 1 Havana - 1

Quito - 1 Maracaibo - 1

Guayaquil - 1 Files - 2

Source Cryptonym: See below References: None

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

The information in this report was obtained from a local detective who works for the National Police. An informant of the Police in Paris provided a report to the latter concerning activities of the Colombian delegation, and he added names of delegates of certain other countries. This informant is studying in Paris and he accompanied the delegates to Berlin. It is likely that the interested stations have this information, but it is thought it might serve to confirm, or possibly add a bit to, the material already at hand.

30-77991

IR COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTION

13-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Subject: Delegates to Youth Festival Report No: TLB-1634

in Berlin Date of Information: August-September 1961

Place Acquired: Colombia, Bogota Date Acquired: January 1962

Evaluation: B-2 Date of Report: 29 January 1962

Source: Local Detective

1. Source reports that an informant in Paris has submitted information to the local Police concerning delegates of certain other countries to the III Festival Mundial de la Juventud held in Berlin in August and September 1961. Those names together with the comments of the informant are included in the following paragraphs.

2. The delegation of Guatemala consisted of the following:

Edelberto TORRES Rivas, Novena Ave. 8. No. 110

Octavio REYES Ortiz, 17 C. O. No. 76

Hugo BARRIOS Klee, 12 Calle Oriente No. 58

José Victor GONZALEZ, 8 Ave. Sur No. 11

3. The following is a list of the Venezuelan delegates:

Juvenel HERRERA, estudiante de derecho

Francisco MIERKS, peligroso

Cordova ARMANDO, estudiante de derecho in Cumaná

Nicolas CURIEL Acosta, escritor de teatro

Juan Pedro ROJAS, pintor

Yolanda Steffens de ROJAS, casada con el anterior

4. The Ecuadorian delegates are as follows:

Enrique Gil Gilbert, escritor

Enrique QUINIBERO.

Patricia CUEVAS, estudiante de medicina de Praga

5. The delegation of Cuba consisted of the following:

Nicolas GUILLEN, poeta y escritor

Santiago GRAJALES, obrero

Antonio NUNEZ-Jimenez, profesor de Podagogía y "responsable de la delegación de Cuba". Es peligroso y cuando hubo necesidad de retratarlo en Paris no se dejó.

Francisco GARCIA Benites, comerciante de Holguin

Jose CANETTI, comerciante en Santiago de Cuba

Classification CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

02316
