14-000003
104-10183-10366
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
MATERI PLUIESED AT CHALAPTOPS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITEE OF ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEIBERS

FILE TITLE/NUIFLE/VOLEE: 201-749611
VOL. TI

INCLUSIVE DATES: 31 Dec 70-13 Apr 71
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LA/DDO
ROOM: 3034

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE REVIEWED BY SIGNATURE OF
RECEIVED RETURNED (PRINT NAME) REVIEWING OFFICIAL.
2 JULY 78 CHUCK PETI Cla
27 JY78 CHUCK BERK Charks Beck
65014 AUG 1978 CORNWELL condolly
600478 BETSY WOLF Betay half

MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
43
! Volume I
Jan. 71--

14-00000

OPERATIONAL MATERIAL dated 2 January 1971 - 10 April 1972

14-00000

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS
FBI, 6 April 1978
I&NS, 19 April 1971

14-00000
:

/27/
SECRET

FRP
STAFF

INFO: FILE. VR. DDO-4, C/PCS, CI-4, DDO/DO, EA-8,
CONF: LA-8
EPS/EG-2, IP/DMS-2, LSN/ID, ODPD-D..PCS/LSN. (34(P.)

78 0552087 PAGE 001
TOT: 1300122 APR:78: DIRECTOR 204604.

SECRET
STAFF 13001I0Z DIRECTOR 204604
TO: IMMEDIATE LA/MIAMI INFO PANAMA CITY.

ANINTEL REAM

REF: LA/MIAMI 28157 0527676

1. IN CONVERSATION WITH NVCANOPY THEY HAVE ADVISED THAT
THEY ARE INTERESTED IN A PRELIMINARY INTERVIEW WITH SLANK-1 (S-1)
AND DEPENDING ON ITS OUTCOME WILL MAKE A DETERMINATION IF THEY
DESIRE 3-1'S CONTINUED CONTACT WITH SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA (SA).
PACHANKIS SHOULD MAKE IT CLEAR TO S-1. THAT RTACTION OBVIOUSLY
HAS NO OBJECTION TO HIS COOPERATION WITH NVCANOPY. PACHANKIS
ALSO SHOULD MAKE IT CLEAR TO S-1 THAT RTACTION HAS 'NO INTEREST
CIN HIS (S-1'S) CONTINUED RELATIONSHIP WITH SA..

2. A REVIEN OF THE FILES OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS WITH WHOM
PACHANXIS CURRENTLY IN ACTIVE CONTACT INDICATES THAT NVCANOPY
APPROVAL WAS SOUGHT AND GRANTED IN EACH CASE, WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF DEFECTORS SUCH AS SLANK-1 WHO HAD BEEN HANDLED
AS A DEFECTOR ALTHOUGH ACCORDING TO THE FILE HE NEVER OFFICIALLY
GRANTED THIS STATUS UNDER PL 110. HOS DOES NOT COORDINATE
EACH INDIVIDUAL MEETING NOR IDENTIFY OFFICER HANDLING CASE
TO NVCANOPY.
3. FILE: 201-2992431 201-749651. E2, IMPDET.>
LA COMMENT: REF QUERIED HOS REGARDING FBI OR CIA INTEREST IN
CS-1 PLAYING ROLE OF CONFIDANT TO ALDEREGUIA,
),
ORIG: LA/CO (SMITH/SPEED X1819/1325); COORD: AC/LA/CO/EA
(HARRINGTON), AC/LA/PHNCR (PORN), PCS/LSN (
C/LA/CARI (BURNETT), C/LA/CAR (GREIG): AUTH: DC/LA/CO (LATRASH).
REL: C/LAD (WARREN): CL BY: 012034.<

END OF MESSAGE! SECRET 749651

14-00000
C

50/22/ DISSEM PER SO 132
SECRET ERP
CONF: C/LA-8 NON-AGENCY
ODPD-D. (15/P) INFO: FILE, RF, C/CI-2, C/IP/DMS, C/LSN/ID, C/PCS,
78 0530447 PAGE 001
TOT: 080750Z APR 78. CJA 203417

CSECRET 
080750Z CIA 202417
TO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,

ATTENTION: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
SECRET/WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM.
CIR-316/ 01514-78
SUBJECT: TOMCAT; ESP-CUBA-PANAMA; RA-CUBA-PANAMA
CREFS:
ABOVE.
A. FBI TELETYPE DATED 0520282 APRIL 1978, CAPTIONED AS

CIR-316/00260-75, DATED 18 FEBRUARY 1975, CAPTIONED
"SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA, ALSO KNOWN AS "EL GALLEGO" INTERNAL SECRUITY-
CUBA.
B.

1. WITH REGARD TO CLARIFICATION OF SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA'S
ASSOCIATION WITH U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND PARTICULARLY WITH CIA,
REFERENCE B ADVISED THAT HE WAS OF INTEREST TO THIS AGENCY IN 1960
WHEN WE WERE INDIRECTLY INVOLVED IN ASSISTING IN HIS EXFILTRATION
FROM CUBA. HOWEVER, HE TOOK ASYLUM IN THE URUGUAYAN EMBASSY IN
HAVANA ON 3 JULY 1960 AND DEPARTED THE SAME DAY FOR CURACAO. AFTER
HIS ARRIVAL IN MIAMI IN FEBRUARY 1961, THIS AGENCY WAS BRIEFLY IN
CONTACT WITH HIM BUT OUR INTEREST WAS DROPPED PARTLY BECAUSE HIS
UNCLE, ONE OF THE LEADING FOUNDERS OF THE CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY, WAS
THEN CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO YUGOSLAVIA AND ALDEREGUIA'S TRUE LOYALTIES
WERE UNKNOWN. THIS AGENCY HAS HAD NO INTEREST IN OR CONTACT WITH
ALDEREGUIA SINCE THAT TIME..
2. VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA DPOS 6 FEBRUARY 1937,
HAVANA, CUBA NAS A FORMER DGI STAFF OFFICER WHO DEFECTED ON 21
APRIL 1964 IN HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA. HE WAS DEBRIEFED AND HANDLED
THROUGH NORMAL DEFECTOR CHANNELS AND WAS THE SOURCE OF NUMEROUS
CSCI'S CONCERNING THE DGI IN 1964 AND 65. HE WAS USED OPERATIONALLY
IN RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTS AGAINST DGI OFFICERS
DURING 1964-1967. HE WAS TERMINATED IN
JULY 1967, AND WAS CONSIDERED, BUT NEVER USED, FOR ANOTHER
RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT IN 1971. SINCE 1971 RODRIGUEZ HAS NOT BEEN
INVOLVED IN ANY CIA OPERATION IN MIAMI OR ELSEWHERE.
JOSEPH NORRIS IS THE ALIAS OF A
CIA REPRESENTATIVE WHO PERIODICALLY DEBRIEFS RODRIGUEZ ON PERSONALITIE
S
AND METHODS OF THE DGI. THERE IS NO OTHER CIA INVOLVEMENT WITH
RODRIGUEZ.
316/6/514-78
3. THIS AGENCY WILL QUERY ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN MIAMI TO
DETERMINE IF HE HAS ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RELEVANT TO THIS
MATTER.

SECRET
Slipe 78
21-749651

14-00000

SECRET
NON-AGENCY

PAGE 002
TOT: 080750Z APR 78.
78 0530497 APR 19 8 47 AM 78
RECEIVED CIA 202417
4. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE OF E.0.11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5 B(2). IMPOSSIBLE TO
DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.>
ORIG LA/CO/CI SPEED X1325: COORD LA/CARI BURRET:
LA/PHNC/P PORN: ADC/LA/CD KEENAN AUTH C/LAD
NARREN: REL AC/PCS/LSN KUNH CL BY 012034.

END OF MESSAGE AP MAY 31
010
SECRET

14-00000
55/25/
SECRET FRP: 2%
ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 22142 NGCOURING STAFF
PRECEDENCE
ACTION LA-8 (837): INFO: FILE, VR. DDD-4, C/PCS, CI-4, EPS/EG-2,
IP/DYS.LSN/ID. ODPD-D, SIA, SIA/IC. (25/4)

760527670 PAGE 001 IN 0527670
TOR: 0722092 APR 78 LMIM 28158

SECRET 072142Z APR 78 STAFF

CITE LA MIAMI 28158

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY.
NIACT DIRECTOR

#NINTEL REAM
0
REF:
LA/MIAMI 28157 0527676

IDEN A: WILLIAM WALTON
FBI SPECIAL: AGENT

IDEN B: JACK COGSHELL, A WEST PALM BEACH
RESIDENT WHO SA SAYS WAS A RETIRED U.S. NAVAL
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER. E2, IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE SECRET 7 Apr 78
201-749651

14-00000
1.

2.
00-
3

55/89/
0.0
D SECRET FRP: 20
0
STAFF
ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 22162 شکایات نان کا
ACTION: LA-8 (836) INFO: FILE, VR, DDD06, C/PES, C/SIA, C/SIA/IC.
CI-4.EPS/EG-2, IP/DMS, LSN/ID, ODPDOD.. (25/日)
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000
000000000
78 0527676 PAGE 001 IN 0527676
TOR: 0722062 APR 78 LMIM 28157

SECRET 0721422 APR 78 STAFF
CITE LA MIAMI 20157

000
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY.
NIACT DIRECTOR

ANINTEL REAM
REFS DIRECTOR 201936
C
D 1. DURING THE YEARS THAT PACHANKIS HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH
SLANK-1 (S-1), FORMERLY AMMUG 1, FROM 1965 TO 1978, PACHANKIS
HAS HAD NO KNOWLEDGE THAT S-1 WAS EVER IN CONTACT WITH
NVCANOPY. SINCE 1969 IT HAS BEEN PACHANKIS' UNDERSTANDING THAT
NVCAVOPY HAS BEEN INFORMED EVERY TIME PACHANKIS HAS MADE AN
OPERATIONAL CALL ON A U.S. PERSON IN THE MIAMI AREA. PACHANKIS
HAS NEVER BEEN EXPOSED/INTRODUCED TO NVCANOPY IN MIAMI. PACHANKIS
HAS BEEN INTRODUCED TO NVCANOPY REPS IN NEA YORK CITY WHILE ON
TOY TO FR/NEN YORK (CIRCA 1974)。 PACHANKIS HAS ALSO MET AN
NVCANOPY AGENT IN NERARK, NEWJERSEY UNDER THE ALIAS OF JOE
NORRIS..

2. PACHANKIS HAS BEEN HANDLING S-1 SINCE EARLY 1970.
SEVERAL TIMES OPERATIONS ALMOST CAME OFF BUT HOS DECIDED AT THE
LAST MINUTE TO PRESERVE S-1'S SECURITY. IN THE PAST FEW YEARS
THERE HAS NOT BEEN MUCH CONTACT WITH S-1 EXCEPT FOR A CHRISTMAS
CALL OR A ROUTINE COG REQUIREMENT.

3. SLANK 1 CALLED PACHANKIS ON 6 APRIL AND REQUESTED MEETING
TO REPORT FOLL:

A. SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA (SA) HAS BEEN S-1 FRIEND SINCE
1955 IN CUBA. THEY CONSPIRED AGAINST THE BATISTA REGIME WHILE
IN THE RANKS OF THE 20TH OF JULY MOVEMENT.

.8. S-1 HAD NOT SEEN SA IN ALMOST FOUR YEARS WHEN THEY
COINCIDENTALLY MET OV A MIAMI STREET IN 1965 (LESS THAN YEAR AFTER
S-1'S DEFECTION FROM DGI). FROM 196S UNTIL FEB/MARCH 1978, THEY
HAD INFREQUENT THOUGH CORDIAL ENCOUNTERS IN MIAMI.
c. AFTER SA'S RECENT ARREST IN MIAMI SY NVCANOPY ON
ESPIONAGE CHARGES. SA HAS BEEN A CONSTANT VISITOR TO S-1'S HOME.
SA HAS OSTENSIVELY BEEN SEEKING TEA AND SYMPATHY FROM Sol.
PROCED SECRET
72278
57 747- ایران

C
SECRET
STAFF
78-0527676 PAGE 002 IN 0527676
TOR: 072206Z APR 78. LMIM 28157

CLAIMING HE HAS BEEN FRAMED BY NUCANOPY, WHILE S-1 DOES NOT
BELIEVE SA, S-1'S "CI MIND AND CURIOSITY HAVE COMPELLED HIM
TO CONTINUE CONTACT WITH SA. IN RECENT WEEKS SA HAS INTRODUCED
S-1 TO IDENS A AND B

4. S-1. WANTS THO POINTS MADE CLEAR TO RTACTION AND NVCANOPY.
ONE, S-1 HAS NEVER BEEN INVOLVED IN SA'S APPARENT ESPIONAGE
ACTIVITIES. TWO, S-1 VOLUNTEERS TO SERVE AS SA'S CONFIDANT IF
NVCANOPY AND/OR RTACTION CONSIDER S-1 CAN DO GOOD IN SUCH A
ROLE. PLEASE ADVISE.

5. STATION HAS NO FILES ON S-1 AND THEREFORE CANNOT COMMENT
ON NVCANOPY KNOWLEDGE OF RTACTION'S PAST RELATIONSHIP WITH S-1.
IT IS OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT NUCANOPY HAS BEEN INFORMED OF
PACHANKIS ACTIVITIES IN ALIAS JOE NORRIS FOR THE PAST SEVERAL
YEARS AT THE HOS LEVEL.

6. FILE: 201-(SLANK-1). E2, IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE
:
V
MAY
478
SECRET rid

14-00000

x2135 called
CA/VIN - SPOB(pic Payroll)
SLENK/1 /201-749651) formerly encrypted AMMU6/1-
He has old (16 OCT75). MCC Jwhich not touched since
Ai
AU6f76 and want to firesce staties of case
IS SCANK being paid.
- ishe Tuminalis-ste
Mandled by FACHANKIS
Since this frees will chick the fili
et let calvin kinoce
-have ordered the file fille auct melissa ialah name.
ANK!! trial manic

CREA
13677
VIDIMIR RODRIGUEZ Lahen
Inframed "Calvin" 15 April 77 that SCANK/1
is istil! on active contact, not receiving amy
but could be paint it rechen used in en afperat
ho problems here. SPCB will bicep bus contract in
adline folcket. RIN
15 Apr -7

14-00000

30 JUL 1976
NOTE: WE WILL NOT ASK FOR A DEVISED FACILITY FOR SLANK/1 UNTIL
11 IS DETERMINED HE WILL BE USED AGAIN.
LA/COG/EA

14-00000
IP
SECRET
MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

0
SUBJECT: Engagement of SLANK-1 (201-749651)

1. Term and Project Charge: Subject has been engaged
under eral contract for use under Project SLEEPER. The
effective date of the oral contract is 16 Oct 1975.

2. Security Approval: An OA for the operational use of
Subject outside the U.S. was granted on 6 Jan 1971.

3. Citizenship: Subject is a United States Citizen.

4. Compensation: Subject is reimbursed for travel expenses
and is given a salary replacement for any time he is required.
to be absent form work at the request of the Agency. The
salary reimbursement will not exceed $40 a day. He may be
awarded cash bonuses for services rendered. He may also
be given gifts from time to time, the individual value
of which will not exceed $50.

5. Taxes: Subject is obligated to pay U.S. taxes and
should be issued a Devised Facility Form 1099 at the end
of each tax year.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence:
a. Subject is not furnished quarters or subsistence.
b. Ne commitments have been made regarding additional
compensation to accommodate increased cost of living and
quarters expenses.

7. Operational Expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for
operational expenses such as entertainment of operational
contacts, phone calls, cover expenses, etc., upon
submission of proper accounting for such expenses.

SECRET LX-4200
16. Gil 76
E2, IMPDET
CL BY: 025231
RECORD OUT 201-749657

14-00000
SECRET

2-
8. Contingent Obligations: Although no commitment to
this effect has been made to Subject, should the security
of Subject or his family become threatened because of
activities undertaken by him at the request of this
Agency, this Agency would have an obligation to reimburse
Subject for expenses required to reduce that threat,
including expenses needed to relocate Subject and his
family and, if necessary, to supplement his income while
he is establishing a new residence and employment.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have
been made to Subject.

REVIEWED: SIGNED:
Case Officer
APPROVED:
Field Contracting Officer

Attachment:
Non-Staff Personnel Data Sheet

Distribution:
Orig & 2 LA/Personnel w/att
1 Vital Documents w/att
1 LA/COG/Chrono
1 201-749651
1 LA/B&F

SECRET

14:00000
SECRET

NON-STAFF PERSONNEL DATA SHEET MATE
16 July 76
INSTRUCTIONS: 1. SUBMIT FOR:
A. CONTRACT EMPLOYEES (TYPE A. BAND CAREER)
8. INDEPENDENT CONTRAC ORS UNDER WRITTEN CONTRACT OR MOC (US CITIZENS OO
RESIDENT ALIENS ONLY)
2. THIS FORM IS NOT APPLICABLE FOR OPERATIONAL OR FIELD AGENTS
3. COPIES OF THE FORM WILL BE RETAINED BY THE ORIGINATING COMPONENT (NUMBER
OF COFIES AT ITS DISCRETION) AND BY CSPS/AGENT BRANCH (I COPY ONLY)
NAME (LAST.FIRST. VIDDLF) SEX DATE OF DIRTH
M 2 Jun 1937
RODRIGUEZ LaHera, Vladimir
MARITAL STATUS NO. DEPENDENTS YEAR(S) OF BIRTH NATIONALITY LAST MEDICAL EXAM
M 3 (wife) 6 Feb 1937 U.S.
24 Aug 1954
DATE OF LATEST SECURITY/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL JOD TITLE COMPONENT
Amended OA 7 Jan 1971
CONTRACT CATEGORY EFFECTIVE DATE EXPIRATION DATE SALARY GRADE EQUIVALENT PROJECT OR FAN O
B 16 Oct 75 Indefinite
BENEFITS
#0
SOCIAL SECURITY X
FECA DEATH AND DISABILITY X
ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE X
CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT X
CIA RETIREMENT OR COMMERCIAL CIA ANNUITY X
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE X
CONTRACT LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE X
MISSING PERSONS BENEFITS X
OTHER (EAPLAIN) If forced to move for security reasons X
CIA would help with expenses.

NON-CIA EDUCATION
Escuela Publica #46 1st-6th Grade
Primaria Superior #2319 7th-3th Grade
Artes y Oficios (Construcion Civil) 1 Year
Instituto de Habana 2 years toward bachelor degree

DATES NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT
FROM TO EMPLOYER LOCATION FUNCTION SALARY
Aug 63-Apr 64 Ministry of Foreign Havana, Cuba Intel Off
Relations
May 65-Dec 66 Scheaffer Advertising Co Miami, Fla Market Re- $600 mo.
searcher
Dec 66-CA Dec 74 Marriot Corp Miami, Fla.
Dec 74-Present Metro Transit Authority Miami, Fla. Bus Driver $13,000 yr.
DATES CIA TRAINING
FROM ΤΟ FUNCTION CONTR. LOCATION PROJECT SALARY
CAT,
GRADE
EQUIV.
Apr 64-Nov 67 Agent B Washington, AMMUG $600 mo.
D.C. & Miarji
Jan 69-Present Informant B Miami, Fla. SLEEPER WAE

14-00000

SECLRITY
FACTORS AFFECTING SUBJECT (PUBLICOSURE PRESS RADIO TV): KNOWN OR SUSP EC IDENTIFICATION TO OTHERS THAN
CIA STAFF PERSONNEL. INTELLIGENCE SECURITY SERVICES.

Cuban Intelligence Service

COVER
PRESENT COVER IS: OFFICIAL NON-OFFICIAL
DIVISION EVALUATION OF COVER SECURITY:

At present, subject is not involved in any activities that
require him to use a cover. If and when he travels abroad, he
will use business or personal cover appropriate to the mission
involved.
EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE:

ADAPTABILITY (SUBJECT AND FAMILY) TOWARDS DUAL LIFE
B. PREVIOUS.COVER #AS: OFFICIAL NON-OFFICIAL (GIVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION IF NOC)

MOCILITY
INDICATE LIMITING FACTORS BOTH PERSONAL AND OPERATIONAL
No known limiting factors
FUTURE UTILIZATION
INDICATE PLANS OR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR USE AFTER CURRENT ASSIGNMENT

Headquarters plans to use Subject to contact and approach
Cubans of operational interest to LA/COG.

14-00000
Pls Pouch to HQS SECRET

28 April 1976
1. For the Record:
0201-749651
SLANK 1 (5-1) has purchased a home at:

2931 SW 19th Terrace
Miami, Florida
tel: (305) 443-3027.

PROGRAM
ER
3
ASSTERCI
DLA
7.12.31
COSTE DEN (11)
433)
FOR FILING
LACOP
Henry S. PACHANKIS.

SLORET LX-4130
RECORD COPY 28Apr 16
201-749651

14-00000
corled SECRET
LOG/LA
FES CARLETHOS; INFO CAS
27 March 1976

1. At 27 March meeting, PACHANKIS discussed latest CARACAS Station
requirements with SPANK-1(5-1).

2. S-1 not seen SLPS-1 (-1) since c. 1964, thus unable provide
updated assessment. 5-1 does not kraw Pol's wife.

3.5-1 considers highly improbable F-1 would accept private meeting
via phone. F-1 could be suspicious of S-1's motives and night
round up own welcoming committee for confrontation.

4 S-1 confidant a direct street meeting -one on one-would offer
best opportunity to communicate Agency offer to F-1.

5. 5-1's second choice would be home approach, were it known 2-1 was.
alone or only with wife.
Prepared take up to plan.

6. S-1 is disciplined, discreet, devoted,ho can adapt splendidly, Station rame/
ES, plucky professional.
States will go anywhere; anytime to cooperate.
5 days sick leave without pay to particinate approach to-i.
Could leave Kiami on Saturday, returning latest. Sunday following.
week. S-1 is Amcit and has US passport.
5-1 needs c. 1 weeks
prior notice to prepare for CARACAS PHY.

1. S-1.reviewed names of Cubans on latest Diplomatic List. Only
positive was: Norberto HERNANDE: Surbele (the Ambassador) who
former DGI colleague of S-1.

Herry S. PACHANKIS.

fil SLAVU! 201

14-00000.
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 6 3 February 1976
SUBJECT: SLANK-1

In reviewing SLANK-1's file for possible leads to targets
of interest the following names were selected:

1. Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart (201-865547)
2. Ricardo ESPINO Martinez (201-818437)
3. Federico CRESPO Moreira (201-894397).
(in Peru since January 1973)
4. Rafael MIRABAL Fernandez (KDACOUSTIC-1) (201-812117)
(Mexico February 1967)
5. Manuel CARDONELL Duque (201-279604)
(Capt. Pol. worked with M-1)
6. Armando "Ulises" ESTRADA Fernandez (201-809440)
7. Ramon Cesar CUENCA Mintoto (201-328945)
(PCS Caracas October 75 (DGI))
8. Roque DALTON Garcia (201-215097)
(DSE now in Havana)
Individual files of subject now being reviewed. If one or several
of these subjects appears recruitable, a plan will be written up
explaining "plan of action."

E2 IMPDET
CL BY Q25231 Wilfredo. CLOWER

SECRET 3 Fet 76

1-00000
18 November 1975
SUBJECT: Change of Address and Phone of SLANK-1 (S-1)

1, S-1 has informed me via a letter to my PO Box that he has
moved once again and has a new phone. Please record:

610 SW 19th Road
Miami
telephone (305) 858-3043.

HSP

201
301 19:51

14-00000 Ref: DIR 759487 |

29 October 1975
SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLANK-1 (S-1)

1. S-1 was met on the evening of 28 October, at his Miami
apartment, to inform him of the following:

A. His old DGI chum, Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto,
appeared to be settling down for an extended stay
in Caracas.
B. Consequently, our people had decided to study him
in depth and decide at a later date what action, if
any, could or should be taken against him. i.e.
to pitch or not to pitch.
C. Our office had asked me to thank him for his offer
to assist in any operation and would keep him in
mind in any future plans. 5-1 was grateful to hear
these words and reiterated his willingness/availability
to help out in this or any other Operation.

2. I thought this to be the most diplomatic and effective way
to treat this issue. I wanted to give him an answer yet not
say we didn't think him the most likely candidate. 5-1 has
always been PRESENT when we needed volunteers. He longs to
get back in the "business" and there is no doubt he can do
the job. They don't core any "gutsier." He never know when
we'll need him and its good to know he is there.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.

: For Slank-1
201-7.49657
29 0 75

14-00000

PRIORITY - THEASE 21. DAR 754594-
16 October 1975

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLANK-1.(S-1)

1. S-1 was visited on the evening of 15 October, at his new
address (5501 NW 7th St, apt 1065) same phone (443-5463)
to discuss recent HUS requirements.

2. S-1 was excited to learn his old boss: Ramon Cesar CUENCA.
Montoto is in Caracas. "I just knew he had to be there because
the Cuban Ambassador (Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo) was my boss
in the DGI (c. 1963-64) and Cesar' was above us both."
(In other words, in c. 1963-64, CUENCA was superior in rank
to both S-1 and HERNANDEZ -the present Cuban Ambassador to
Venezuela.) (CUENCA was know as Cesar to his coworkers/friends)...

3. S-1 is serioulsly ready, willing and able to partake in any
Agency Operation against CUENCA and/or HERNANDEZ. S-l is an
AMCIT and has a valid US passport. His only consideration is
obtaining the proper permission from his employers. This is
a matter which the Agency MUS solicit for him. As previously
reported, 5-1 workes for:

Metro Transit Authority (bus driver)
3300 NW 32. Avenue, Miami.

4. The persons to be contacted at NTA, to grant S-1 the necessary
leave are:
Mr. FNU CROSS and
Mr. M. C. BUTLER

The ball is in our court. You cannot ask for a more dedicated/
motivated/educated (re the DSI) than S-1. S-l will be ready to
travel the minute Agency obtains necessary permission from MIA.

5. Re: "FERNANDEZ" -the Yemen based Cuban military instructor-"
S-1 reports NEGATIVE. (SLARSTICK-1 had previously reported NEGATIVE)

6. Whatever decision HQS takes, would appreciate being informed
so we can notify S-1. He is most dedicated/valuable assest
and we owe him this courtesy. In past, he has been alerted and
we have failed to notify him of abortions, and left him hanging
in midir.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.
201-74965!
Oct 75
ACT

14,00000

Henry 5.

he
201-74965KIP
SLANK-1

201-749651

14-00000
28 February 1975
SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLACK-1.(S-1)

1. S-1 was Contacted on the evening of 27 February, at his
Miami home (2761 S 24th Cerrace, tel: 443-0155) re his
availability to approach his old friend, Roberto RODRIGUEZ
Llompart.

2. As on all previous occasions when we have asked for S-1's
collaboration, S-l's answer was AFFIRMATIVE. The only
condition is that we obtain his employer's permission to
be absent from his present job. He is not entitled to
vacation until c. August 1975.

3. S-1 is presently employed as a bus driver for the:

Metro Transit Authority
3300 NW 32nd Avenue
Miami.
Tel: 633-9735.

The persons who must grant the permission are, in this
order of rank:

:
H. I. CROSS
B. L. WALLACE
K. C. BUTLER

4. S-1: has a valid US passport. and, he can be available to
travel.the moment this superiors grant him the leave without
pay we request.

5. I have again thanked him for his sincere/loyal cooperation.
I have promised to keep him abreast of developments.

Henry S. PACMANKIS.

14-00000
FORM 30206.
7.71 MFG. 3/74
CABLE SEC DISSEM
PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED
PE
TOTAL COFIES
181
RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET
STAFF
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
CAIO
ACTION
NFO
f
FILE
6
T22297
ΕΙΑ861
PAGE 01
TOR:2818572 FEB 75
IN 508121
LMIM 23060
SECRET 2618302 FEB 75 STAFF
CITE LA MIAMI 23260 (ENNIS ACTING)
TO: DIRECTOR,
REAM
REFI
1.
DIRECTOR 661106
OSLANK 1 CONTACTED BY PACHANKIS 27 FEB. 75.

2. AS IN THE PAST S-1 INDICATED HE IS WILLING
TO MAKE AN APPROACH TO SUBJECT PER REF. S-1 IS NOW
EMPLOYED WITH THE LOCAL METRO TRANSIT AUTHORITY AND IS
NOT DUE A VACATION UNTIL AFTER MID-1975: THEREFORE ANY
ABSENCE FROM WORK MUST BE REQUESTED BY EKHERALD AND
APPROVED BY ANY ONE OF HIS SUPERIORS (H.I. CROSS,
B.L. KALLACES M.C. BUTLER -- IN ORDER OF DESCENDING
AUTHORITY).

3. S-1 HAS VALID U.S. PASSPORT AND CAN TRAVEL
WHEN NEEDED.

4. FILE: 201-2749651, E2, IMPDET.
RECORD COPY
SECRET

14-00000

OMF 0
CLASSIFICATION
OUTGOIN MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTES USE ON
CO
ACP
0000000
SECRET
MESSAGE