JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/11/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10299-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO:
TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 12/17/1963
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: IID

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS:

2025 Release under the John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 173
Docld:2374
Page 1

TOP SECRET DINAR
***NO FOREIGN DISSEM**********
XRAY HANDLING REQUIRED
Haitian HTDA-2]WS 3161 3/Ο/Χ/Τ02-64((A))
IS 03 Jan 2129Z P
Dist: HCF

HAITI TO REQUEST RECALL OF U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIALS

FR Port-au-Prince: Dr. FRANCOIS DUVALIER, 17 Dec 63
TO Washington: THEARD
Msg Nr: -

Please deliver this' letter from Dr. JACQUES FOURCAND to
I. IRVING DAVIDSON.
FBI
CLASSIFIED BY 5668-318/
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X
"My dear IRVING:"

His Excellency has received your cable.

You have left His Excellency's office with the impression
(B val that he) was willing to offer the new Ambassador the
most loyal and frank collaboration.

However, a certain stiffening has characterized the first
contact between TIMMONS and Foreign Minister CHALMERS and
Deputy Foreign Minister RAYMOND at the Foreign Ministry
Building.

The Foreign Ministry's general opinion is that he is the
least qualified at the present time and that his presence could
be fatal for the resumption of relations.

Please see if he can be recalled before he presents his
credentials.
BUREAU SOURCE - of Naiti INDEXED
NOT RECORDED
His Excellency was informed of your opinion. A complete
DRY((B)) was (B val necessary).

JAN 23 1964
Haitian 3/0/X/T02-64
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 173
Docld:2374
Page 2

TOP SECRET DIMAR
****NO FOREIGN DISSEM**
Haitian 3/0/X/T02-64
(B val Anticipating) the Ambassador's arrival, NORMAN
WARREN, JOHN HACEY and (B val company) have redoubled their
ardor against the President.

I believe that it is preferable to make these transfers
without the opinion of any unfriendly person. This action
is always considered unfriendly.

President DUVALIER has asked for these recalls to permit
Ambassador TIMMONS to be the [1 grG) of a Haitian-United States
rapprochement. Therefore, as we say, the departure of JOHN
HACEY (B val and company) is imperative.

We are expecting your immediate reply.

You have seen, My dear IRVING, that the recall of
WARREN, WARNER, HASSEY, MOSS and TIMMONS must be obtained.

JACQUES FOURCAND."

Translate in English (FS

((A)) Previously issued as 3/0 (HD/T321-63 (Incomplete text.)
See also 3/0/X/T01-64.
((B)) As in text; possible omission here.

MS 974 CN (ILCO TI
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 173
Docld:2374
Page 3
