JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10203-10246
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-3171-442

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Date: 06/30/95
Page : 1

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, CG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 10/05/61
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS : SGI, ASSOC, CONFERENCE, RFK SPEAKING BEFORE GROUP

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 2,4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/29/95
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC NOTE

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 1

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIV DIVISION

Summary
10/31

Giancana, a Chicago mobster and
target for early prosecution, is devising
plans to remove pressure for hoodlum
element. The hoodlum element in Chicago
making plans to have the AG "toned" down
during his appearance before Italian group
during Columbus Day proceedings in
Chicago on October 12, 1961. Information
obtained from our technical coverage.
Giancana also issued instruction to have
Agusnected informant taken for a ride. Q
G advised.

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 2

10203-10246
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 4-20-84 BY SPSRJ6/

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 3

DECODED COPY

Radio Teletype

URGENT 10-5-61 11:26 PM SM

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC SAN FRANCISCO

FROM SAC CHICAGO 060234

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

ATTENTION ASST. DIRECTOR COURTNEY EVANS. SAMUEL M. GIANCANA
ANTIRACKETEERING
AKA. AR. CERINCY SUMMARY. CG 6486-C ADVISED LAST NIGHT OF
LENGTHEY CONFERENCES BETWEEN GIANCANA AND VARIOUS HOODLUMS.
AMONG THOSE ATTENDING AS BEING IDENTIFIED WERE DOMINIC BLASI
AND ROSS PRIO. PRIO WAS CONCERNED OVER THE FACT THAT ATTORNEY
GENERAL KENNEDY IS MAKING AN APPEARANCE IN CHICAGO BEFORE AN
ITALIAN AMERICAN GROUP DURING COLUMBUS DAY PROCEEDINGS HERE.
HE FELT THAT ONE ANUNZIO, HEAD OF THIS GROUP, SHOULD BE TOLD
TO TONE DOWN ON KENNEDY, THAT THIS WAS AN OBVIOUS ATTEMPT,
ACCORDING TO PRIO, OF KENNEDY TO CONVINCE THE ITALIAN PEOPLE
HERE THAT HE IS FRIENDLY TO THIS ETHNIC GROUP. PRIO ADVISED
GIANCANA THAT HE IS CONNECTED WITH AN OFFICIAL OF A NEW MAGAZINE
IN CHICAGO BELIEVED TO BE NAMED SHOW BUSINESS ILLUSTRATED,
AND THAT THIS OFFICIAL IS WILLING TO EDITORIALIZE THE MAGAZINE
AGAINST ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS CREATING INVESTIGATIONS
AGAINST THE HOODLUM ELEMENT. ONE SUGGESTION OFFERED BY GIANCANA
WAS TO HAVE THIS INDIVIDUAL COMMENT ON THE FACT THAT KENNEDY S
SPENDING ALL HIS TIME INVESTIGATING BOOKMAKERS AND NOT PAYING
ATTENTION TO THOSE WHO ARE ATTEMPTING TO OVERTHROW GEE LOVERN
MENT, NAMELY, THE COMMUNISTS. TWO UNKNOWN PERSONS SPOKE WITH
GIANCANA AND ADVISED THAT THEY CHAD IDENTIFIED TWO INFORMANTS
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
57 OCT 19 1961
DATE 4:20-84 BY SPSRJ6
SENT DIRECTOR
10-6-61
MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.
NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 4

DECODED COPY

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

Radio Teletype

PAGE TWO FROM SAC CHICAGO 060234.

UTILIZED BY THE STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE, COOK COUNTY, IN
MAKING GAMBLING RAIDS. AFTER OUTLINING TO GIANCANA THE REASONS
FOR SUSPECTING ONE INFORMANT, GIANCANA GAVE INSTRUCTIONS TO
"PUT HIM IN A STEAM BOX, TAKE HIM FOR A RIDE, HIT HIM IN THE
HEAD AND THROW HIM IN THE (UNKNOWN)." POSSIBILITY EXISTS
THIS INFORMANT MAY BE IDENTICAL TO CG 6093-C. THIS INFORMANT
POSSIBLY HAS BEEN FURNISHING INFORMATION DIRECTLY TO THE STATES
ATTORNEYS OFFICE RELATING TO GAMBLING ACTIVITIES. IT IS NOTED
THAT THE INFORMANT HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH THE STATES ATTORNEYS
POLICE CONCERNING HIS RECENT CONVICTION ÎN COOK COUNTY FOR
INTIMIDATION OF A WITNESS. THE INFORMANT POSSIBLY WAS CONTACTED
BY THE STATES ATTORNEYS POLICE AND VOLUNTEERED TO ASSIST THE
STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE IN RETURN FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE
THEN PENDING CASE IN COURT. IN ORDER TO PROTECT SOURCE IT IS
NOT DEEMED ADVISABLE TO DISCUSS THESE POSSIBILITIES WITH IN-
FORMANT. CG 6093-C BEING ALERTED BY CONTACTING AGENT TO BE
EXTREMELY CAUTIOUS AND ALERT IN ALL HIS FUTURE ACTIVITIES.
THIS ALERT WILL BE GIVEN HIM IN SUCH A WAY SO THAT THE SOURCE
IS COMPLETELY PROTECTED. CHICAGO CONSIDERS IT INADVISABLE
TO FURNISH INFORMATION CONCERNING OTHER INFORMANT TO STATES
ATTORNEYS OFFICE IN VIEW OF THE FACT THAT CG 6486-C ADVISED
LAST NIGHT THAT THEY HAD SOMEONE IN THE STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE
ON THEIR PAYROLL AND THAT HE WAS FURNISHING THEM INFORMATION
CONCERNING ACTIVITIES IN STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE. ROSS SPENCER,
FORMER AGENT AND CHIEF INVESTIGATOR AT STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE
IS PRESENTLY OUT OF THE COUNTRY ATTENDING IACP CONVENTION.
EVEN IF INFORMATION EVENTUALLY GIVEN TO SPENCER, THIS OFFICE
HAS NO CONTROL OVER THE DISSEMINATION WHICH SPENCER MIGHT

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.
NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 5

DECODED COPY

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

Radio Teletype

PAGE THREE FROM SAC CHICAGO 060234

MAKE OF INFORMATION, THEREBY JEOPARDIZING SOURCE. FULL
CONTEXT OF THESE TWO CONVERSATIONS CONTAINED IN DAILY
AIRTEL SUMMARY THIS DATE UNDER CAPTION ACTIVITIES OF TOP
HOODLUMS, CHICAGO DIVISION. YARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED: 12:43 AM
LAM

[DC: MR. EVANS

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.
NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 6
