AGENCY : FBI
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 04/20/98
Page: 1

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10173
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-522

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, RH
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 09/27/63
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS : JRO, ASSOC, TELCAL, BKG, RCK, GAMBLING, RACK ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/17/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318 Docld:34489919 Page 1

2025 Release under the President John
F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
5010-04
UNITED STATES GERNMENT
Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 9/27/63
FROM SAC, RICHMOND (92-264) - P -
SUBJECT: JOHN ROSSELLI, aka
AR
(00: LOS ANGELES)

Re Los Angeles letters to New York dated 8/7 and
30/63.

The referenced communications requested the
Richmond and various other Divisions to ascertain the
identity of subscribers to numerous telephone numbers
which have been called from a telephone of ROBERT A.
MAHEU and Associates, 10889 Wilshire Boulevard, Los
Angeles, California.

The results of the investigation by Richmond
are being forwarded to the Bureau because two former
Special Agents of the FBI are among the subscribers to
telephones called from this Los Angeles office

The following investigation was conducted by
SA HOWARD E. RICHARDSON. The information from the tele-
phone records referred to below is confidential and cannot
be made public prior to the issuance of a subpoena duces
tecum directed to the Manager of the Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company (C & P Tel. Co.), or his duly authorized
representative in the various cities referred to below:

RE: WILLIAM J. STATEN
3531 N. Valley Street
Arlington, Virginia

The records of the C & P Tel. Co., Arlington, Va.,
on 8/19/63, revealed that number 536-6343 (ΚΕ 6-6343) is

2 - Bureau
2 - Los Angeles (92-113)
2 - WFO (92-715)
2 - Richmond
HER/mw
(8)

XEROX
OCT 7 1963
REC-104
92-3267-522

2 SEF 30 1963

PERS. REC. UNIT
5.50CT 91963
205

NW 78318 Docld:34489919 Page 2

RH 92-264

Credit Bureau, Inc., at which time he located a report
dated 7/5/63. This report reflects that KEITH L. HANNA,
and his wife VIRGINIA, have resided at 615 Poplar Drive,
Falls Church, Virginia, since August 1, 1944. He was
listed as being 51 years of age and employed by the Small
Business Administration as an Administrator Comptroller
where he had been employed since 12/17/51. His estimated
income was listed as $12,845.00 per year. He was formerly
employed by the U. S. Department of Agriculture as an
accountant. He formerly resided at 316 N. Oxford St.,
Arlington, Va., and at Acton, Indiana. His credit was
rated as satisfactory.

Officer HOTTLE, Records Section, Falls Church
Police Department, Falls Church, Va., on 8/23/63, advised
IC THOMAS E. DREWRY that records of his office do not
contain any information identifiable with KEITH L. HANNA,
approximately 51 years of age. He stated that the records
of his office do reflect that one KEITH LAWRENCE HANNA,
615 Poplar St., Falls Church, Va., a white male, born
10/19/42, has been issued several traffic citations by
that department. This individual appears to be a son of
the above captioned KEITH L. HANNA

RE: J. H SIMS
5052 N. 36th Street
Arlington, Virginia

CS RH 97-C on 9/6/63, advised SA HOWARD E. RICHARDSON
that telephone number KE 6-8604 is subscribed to by Captain
JOHN H. SIMS, US Navy, 5052 N. 36th St., Arlington, Va.
This individual has Naval Serial Number 86445 and at the
time this telephone service was installed on 8/11/61, was
assigned to the Industrial War College as a member of the
U. S. Navy.

NW 78318 Docld:34489919 Page 3
8

RH 92-264

RE: EUGENE T TISON
2424 Lunceford Lane
Falls Church, Virginia

CS RH 97-C on 9/6/63, advised SA HOWARD E.
RICHARDSON that telephone number TW 3-7764 and TW 3-8195
are both subscribed to by EUGENE T. TISON, 2424 Lunce-
ford Lane, Falls Church, Va.

TISON has a "kep button" set.

The 1963 Falls Church, Va. City Directory re-
flects that EUGENE T. TISON, whose wife is identified as
CATHERINE M. TISON, is a communications worker for the
U. S. Government. His specific job and the agency for
which he works were not identified.

LEADS:

WASHINGTON FIELD

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

1. Will verify the employment of ROSCOЕ С.
WILLIAMS at the Standard Oil Company.

2. Will verify the employment of KEITH L. HANNA
at the Small Business Administration.

3. Will contact logical sources and any infor-
mation indicating gambling or racketeering activities on
the part of any of the individuals mentioned herein as
residence of the Virginia portion of the Washington, D. C.-
Metropolitan area.

RICHMOND

AT ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA

Will review the rental application of J. O'HARRA
at the Governor Hill Apartments, 5111 S. 8th Road, for

NW 78318 Docld:34489919 Page 4
9
