JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10370-10012
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-M6

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: DOJ/CRIM
TITLE:
DATE: 12/20/1977
'PAGES: 244

SUBJECTS: HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, ASSASSINATION
MATTERS VOLUME XII
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/04/1999
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, LHM, MEMO, LET, MAILGRAM, NEWS ARTICLES, TTY, R/S, NEWS
RELEASE, FD-302, SUMMARY, A/T, ENVELOPE

Date: 4/15/201
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

v9.1
NW 88608 Docld:32319447 Page 1
44

N NETIST EJAUSICA
33 SUFRI
2681966 1967 10 20
CG17 408 PH
RECEIVED
FEDERAL BUREAU
OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEROU UPCΓΙΑ ΝΤΟΝΚΑΠΟΝ.
IN THIS DOCUMENT GMB 24/24
AS SANITIZED
1
1716072 OCT 77
JOISTATO SOSTERI// ad Jara Thessalia CI
WDICIST OF STATE//SY/I/PI?
MOTSIOZU ADRESETTLIMI//3918635 NGO/Adid
FIPCI-719/77373-77
SFCF7T--WARNINO NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS TEVOLVED--NOF RELEASAPLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS
FOT RELEASELE
TO CONTRACTORS OF CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTO--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION
OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY OCIGINATOR.

SUBJECT: ALLEGATIONS BY QURAN DIPLOMAT IN JAMAICA CONGEPSING THE POLE
OF CERTAIN CIRAN EXILEE IN THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.
KENNETTY
1.
31 1060341e viu Ad dan 398 0117240 JNTOTIDE ARE
62-10911-17 CARBON COPY DO NOT FILE

NW 88608
Docld:32319447 Page 2

PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 4261S
CRET
ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CONDUCT OF FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AC-
TIVITIES OUTSIDE THE U.S.
2.
C
(5)
JAMAICA, A
ACCORDING TO OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN KINGSTON, JAMAI
FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE HAS REPORTED THAT ENRIQUE MONTERO
LEZ CANO, MINISTER-COUNSELOR OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON, MADE
CERTAIN ALLEGATIONS ON 24 SEPTEMBER 1977 CONCERNING THE ROLE OF CUBAN
EXILES IN THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY. MONTERO
MADE THESE ALLEGATIONS DURING THE COURSE OF HIS ADDRESS TO THE REGULAR
MONTHLY MEETING OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF GUBA MEMBERS ASSIGNED TO
JAMAICA. THE MEETING WAS HELD IN THE CUBAN EMBASSY. MONTERO SAID,
AMONG OTHER THINGS, THAT CUBAN EXILES SUCH AS FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE
OFFICER DIAZ LAN (FNU) AND OTHERS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ASSAS-
SINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. MONTERO REFERRED TO THE ASSASSINATION
IN THE CONTEXT OF A SECURITY LECTURE IN WHICH MONTERO CLAIMED THAT
C CUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES HAVE INCREASED IN
RECENT MONTHS. MONTERO SAID RECENT INFORMATION HAD ARRIVED IMPLICA-
TING DIAZ IN THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. MONTERO DID NOT MENTION ANY
OTHER CUBAN EXILES BY NAME OR ANY FURTHER DETAILS. MONTERO DID NOT
IDENTIFY THE SOURCE OF HIS INFORMATION, ALTHOUGH OUR SOURCE HAD THE

NW 88608 Docld:32319447 Page 3
