File #:

62-HQ-116395

Serial Scope:

951-953, 954-963, 964, 965-971

PONOL
DESTRCI
FOPA

NW-88614 Docld:32989673-Page-1-

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88614 Date: 03-18-2025

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

The Attorney General October 10, 1975

Director, FBI 1- Mr. J. G. Deegan
1 - Mr. E. F. Glenn

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

#MDR16

Reference is made to the September 8, 1975, SSC
request forwarded to the Department of Justice by letter dated
September 9, 1975, listing certain documents and other infor-
mation desired from the FBI.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the
Committee is an original of a memorandum in response to some
of the requests.

Also enclosed for your records is a copy of the
memorandum which is being delivered to you with a set of the
materials which is being delivered to the SSC.
REC-114 62-116395-951

Enclosures (2) OCT 30 1975

1 - The Deputy Attorney General
Attention: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm. EFG: eks
Dep. AD Inv. (10)
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen, Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
MAIL ROOM
NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 2

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

TOP SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED
ROUTE IN ENVELOPE
TELETYPE UNIT
GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

The Attorney General

NOTE:

Single copies of the 9/8 and 9/9/75, communications are
attached to the file copy of the enclosed LHM. Exact copies of
the materials being furnished are maintained in the office of the
SENSTUDY 75 Project and a detailed record has been maintained of
the materials furnished. Arrangements have been made for a
representative of the Legal Counsel Division to deliver the
attached memorandum as well as the materials being provided to
the SSC.

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 3

2 -

62-116395 2 - Mr. A. Mintz
(1 Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan
1 - Mr. E. F. Glenn

October 10, 1975

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
#MDR16
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to the letter from the Director
of the Domestic Intelligence Task Force, SSC, to the Deputy
Attorney General's Office dated September 9, 1975, requesting
delivery of FBI materials pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr.,
and/or the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

The purpose of this memorandum is to effect delivery
to the SSC of information and materials relating to the
September 8, 1975, SSC requests and specifically to the following
Items in those requests: Items 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, and 35.

Item 22 requested all materials which reflect approval
of Mr. Sullivan's recommendations which were contained in the
latter's November 22 and 27, 1964, memoranda to Mr. Belmont,
subject "Communism and the Negro Movement--A Current Analysis."

No separate materials reflecting approval of Mr. Sullivan's
recommendations which were contained in his November 22 and 27
memoranda to Mr. Belmont could be located. At September 17,
1975, conference with SSC Staff Member Michael Epstein, it was
pointed out that the approval of Mr. Sullivan's recommendations
in his memoranda were the initials of the officials on the
communication up to and including Mr. Tolson.

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
MAIL ROOM
NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 4

TOP SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED
ROUTE IN ENVELOPE
TELETYPE UNIT
GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

SINATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Item 23 requested all materials reflecting contacta
or communications between lir. Sullivan and ir. Hohr, and between
Mr. Sullivan and Mr. DeLoach, es described in the second
paragraph of Mr. Sulliven's November 27, 1964, memorandum to
Mr. Belmont, subject "Communism and the Negro lovement--A
Current Analysis."

No materirls could be located reflecting contacts
or communications between lir, Sullivan and Mr. Mohr, and/or
between Hr. Sullivan and lir. DeLoach as described in the
second peregraph of Mr. Sullivan's memorandum to Mr. Belmont,
November 27, 1964. It may be assumed that the contacts were
cither verbal or by routing slip transmission which in either
case are not recorded,

Item 25 requested all moterials reflecting the
printing of any of the documents identified in Itom 24. r.-e.
above.

All documents identified in Item 24. a.-e, are
printed documents. other than the documents themselves, no
records exist indicating that these documents were printed or
the number of copies printed.

Item 26 requested an identification of any materials
(e.g. transcripts) which were attached to any of the documents
identified in Item 24, 2.-e. above.

There were no attachments to the documents identified
in Iten 24, c.-e. above.

Iten 27 requested all materials reflecting that:
a. "Mr. Toloon has suggested," and
b. "the Director agreed,"
that the monograph on Martin Luther King, Jr., be brought up
to date as reflected in the first paragraph of Mr. Moore's
NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 5

2-

SELTE SELECT COMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

February 29, 1968, mcmorandum to lir. Sullivan, subject
Mortin Luther King, Jr.; Security Matter - C."

No materials could be located reflecting that
'Mir. Tolson has suggested" and "the Director agreed."

Iten 30 requested all natorials reflecting that
"(w) ith Bureau approval, (Mllion C. Sullivan) had previously
given (Rolph) McGill some of the basic facta concorning
King's connections with communion and his (doloted)," as
indicated in Mr. Sullivan's January 21, 1965, nemorandum to
Mr. A. II. Delmont, subject Martin Luther King, Jr.; Security
Matter - c."

No materials could be located reflecting that
"(w) ith Dureau approval (Willion C. Sullivan) had previously
given (Ralph) McGill some of the basic facts concorning
King's connections with communion and his (deleted)."

Iton 31 requested all materials reflecting contact
by Special Agent Aldon F. Miller or by any FEI Headquarters
officials vith Eugene Petterson concerning Martin Luther King,
Jr., as proposed by Special Agent Miller in a telephone conver
sction with Mr. Sullivan on January 15, 1964. (Seo Mr.
Sullivan's January 16, 1964, menorendun to Mr. Belmont,
subject "Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influenco
in Racial Matters; Intornol Security - C."

llo notorials could be located indicating that
Lugane Patterson was contacted by FBI porconnel concerning
Martin Luther King, Jr.

Item 33 requested all materials reflecting "the
suggestion recently made by (the Atlante Field Office)
that another conference be held at the Seat of Government
NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 6

3
-

SUNATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

with representatives of (the Atlenta) Office and the
Now York Office," as indicated in the second porograph of the
Director's April 1, 1964, letter to the S/C, Atlanta, captioned
"Communist forty, USA, Negro Question, Comunist Influence in
Laciel iktters; Internal Security - C."

This Item has been responded to under Iten 19 of
SSC request dated July 8, 1975,

Item 34 requested all materials reflecting
recommendation for, and approval of, the sending of the Director's
April 1, 1964, letter to the S/C, Atlanta, captioned "Communist
Prrty, USA, fingro Quection, Communist Influence in Kocirl Motters
Internal Security - C."

The only other material responsive to this request
hoo already been furnished to the SSC (e.g.) Sullivan to Belmont
memorandum December 24, 1963, captioned "Comzunist Party, USA,
llegro Question, Communist Influence in Erciel Otters; Internal
Security - C," which has been sepa ratoly submitted by the
IBI in response to Item 19 of the SSC requert July 8, 1975.

1 - The Attorney General

4
NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 7

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

SEP 11 1975

TO: John A. Mintz Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination

SUBJECT: (1) Senate Select Committee Request
(2) Deputy Attorney General Letter to Senator Church

(1) Attached for your attention and as prompt a response
as possible is a letter from the SSC with annexations which
request certain materials pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr.
As you know, requests for materials as they relate to King are,
by recent designation of the Committee Chairman, "high priority".

(2) Also attached for forwarding is a copy of a letter
sent by the Deputy Attorney General to Chairman Church concerning
a matter of interest to Messrs. Bill Cregar and Nick Callahan of
the Bureau.

cc: Paul Daly

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 8

ENCLOSURE
FFMDR 16
10/12/00 SP-2ALM/ITE

62-116.395-951

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN
MINIC, TOWIN, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN
PHILIF S. HART, MICHE
WALTEN F. MOCALE, MINN.
WALTERKY.
ROBCAT MONGAN, N.C.
GARY HART, CULO.
No
HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., ΤΕΝΝ.
ESFRY GOLDWATER, ANIZ.
CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.
RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

WILLIAM C. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
FREDEPICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL
CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

United States Senate
SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, SATH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

September 9, 1975

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq.
Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination
Office of Deputy Attorney General
U. S. Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mike:

FBE
#MORIG
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
BY SP-2ALM 76
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 11-8-00 BY

Attached is a list of FBI materials, delivery
of which is requested by September 15, 2015. priorities. TE
(cccc; to cagreed
I would also appreciate your making available
for Committee staff access, all Department of Justice
files pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr. and/or the
Southern Christian Leadership Conference for the year
1963. Upon examination of these files, delivery there-
after will be orally requested for specific items in
accordance with the provisions of the procedural agree-
ment between the Committee and the Department which
governs Committee requests for materials.

Sincerely,

John T. Elliff
Director
Domestic Intelligence Task Force

2345
✓ RECEIVED
☑ SEP 9 1975
8910

Receipt of material
case
Covered by Fanda
Subpoena heteky actentiateciged,

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 9

DOCUMENT REQUEST September 8, 1975

1. An unexcised copy (except for the identity of the informant)
wf of the 2/12/62 airtel from the SAC, New York, to the Director,
FBI, subject "Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., SM-C (00: Atlanta).'
Juck?
2. All materials reflecting the steps taken by the FBI which
"prevent (ed) the CPUSA from seizing control of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People," as stated
in the last paragraph of page 4 of the enclosure captioned
"Communist Party USA" which was attached to Director Hoover's
January 10, 1961 letter to Robert, Kennedy.
NOT
CURS
3. Reports which were submitted by the Atlanta and New York
field offices pursuant to the following instructions which
were contained in the second paragraph of page 1.of the
February 27, 1962 letter from the FBI Director to the SAC,
Atlanta, captioned "Martin Luther King, Jr., Security Matter
C, Office of Origin: Atlanta," (a copy of which was dis-
seminated to the New York field office:
Nugent
NP

"New York and Atlanta are instructed to review
their files and prepare a report suitable for
dissemination which will include all information
of a security nature plus complete background data.
ة
4. The "Bureau letters to Atlanta, 7/20/62, to Mobile, 7/20/62,
and to Savannah, 9/17/62" which are referenced in the first
paragraph of the 10/11/62 memorandum from the SAC, Atlanta, to
the FBI Director, captioned "Communist Infiltration of the
Southern Christian Leadership Conference, IS-C, (00:Atlanta)."
NP
5. The "Correspondence received from the Atlanta and New York
Offices" as indicated in the first sentence of Mr.. Baumgardner's
: October 22, 1962 memorandum to Mr. Sullivan, subject "Communist
Infiltration of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,
Internal Security-C".
NP
6. All materials reflecting instructions issued to the New York
and Atlanta field offices "to furnish the Bureau recommendations
and the recommendations received from those two field offices
for a "communist infiltration investigation of SCLC", as
indicated in the second paragraph of Mr. Baumgardner's
October 22, 1962 memorandum to Mr. Sullivan, subject "Communist
Infiltration of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,
Internal Security-C".
TIME FRAME Concerning a communist infilitration investigation of (SCLC)
#Moe16
ALL FBI DIFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN 18 UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 11-8.00 BYSP-2ALM ALM/7TG JTG
NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 10

162-1116395-951
- 2 -

7. The "necessary Manual changes" which were "attached for
.8. approval" to Mr. Baumgardner's September 16, 1963 memorandum
to Mr. Sullivan, subject "Communist Party, USA, Negro
Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal
Security-Communist."

All materials which support the following statement of
Director Hoover which was noted on Mr. Baumgardner's
September 16, 1963 memorandum to Mr. Sullivan, subject
"Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence
in Racial Matters, Internal Security-Communist":
MORE SPECIFIC
Just a few weeks ago you contended that the
Communist influence in the racial movement was
ineffective and infinitesimal.

9. The September 5, 1963 letterhead memorandum to the Attorney
General and "the related prior memoranda" which are referred
to in the first paragraph of Assistant Attorney. General Burke
Marshall's September 20, 1963 memorandum to the Director
captioned "Hunter Fitts O'Dell."
NP
10. The July 3, 1963 letter from Martin Luther King, Jr. to
Hunter Pitts O'Dell which was attached to Assistant Attorney
General Burke Marshall's September 20, 1963 memorandum to
the Director captioned "Hunter Pitts O'Dell".
NP
11. All materials reflecting or pertaining to conversations
INP between Courtney Evans and Assistant Attorney General Burke
Marshall, and/or between Mr. Evans and the Attorney General,
as described in Assistant Attorney General Marshall's
September 20, 1963 memorandum to the Director captioned
"Hunter Pitts O'Dell".

12. The "Brief on the above-captioned matter and subsequent
0.4. memoranda on the same subject matter" which are referred to
BUT NEED TO
DSCUSS in the first sentence of the second paragraph of Mr. Sullivan's
SUELENVENT
MEMBRANNA September 25, 1963 memorandum, subject "Communist Party, USA,
Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal
Security-C."
13. The "detailed document prepared on Communist Party and the
Negro in 1953" and the "analysis in this same field prepared
by the Bureau in 1956" which are referred to in the penultimate
paragraph of page 2 of Mr. Sullivan's September 25, 1963
memorandum to Mr. Belmont, subject "Communist Party, USA,
Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters,
Internal Security-C."
1963?

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 11

14. All materials reflecting or pertaining to Director Hoover's
"off the record" discussion before "the Rooney Committee",
as referred to in his February 5, 1964 memorandum concerning
a 9:51 a.m. telephone call from the Attorney General, as
well as an unexcised copy of the February 5 memorandum.
NP
15. All materials which reflect the basis for the following
Mainice
?
: statements which are contained in Mr. Baumgardner's May 20,
1964 memorandum to Mr. Sullivan, subject "Internal Security
Section, Domestic Intelligence Division, Administrative
Matter":
a. "About three months prior to the March on Washington
(8/28/63), we intensified our investigation concern-
ing communist influence into the racial movement. . .";
b. "Martin Luther King, head of SCLC, has challenged the
Bureau on this point."

16 All materials reflecting the "previous arrangements" referred
NP to in the November 18, 1964 memorandum from Mr. DeLoach to
Mr. Mohr, subject "Sarah McClendon, Background Briefing
Sessions Group, Appointment with the Director, 10:00 a.m.,
11/18/64 (10:05 a.m. - 12:50 p.m.)"

17. All materials reflecting, concerning, or pertaining to::
a.. "(S)tatements made by Martin Luther King concern-
ing the situation in Albany, Georgia, at the time he
highly criticized the FBI. His statements were made
on 11/18/62 during an interview in the Robing Room of
the Riverside Church in New York City where King had
just preached a sermon." (This quotation is taken
from the penultimate paragraph of page 2 of the 11/19/64
memorandum from M. A. Jones to Mr. DeLoach captioned
"Director's Briefing of Women Reporters on 11/18/64")
Containe
76
Coordinatiol mo
Inspatin
Nural Dic?
Wielk
Comments, responses, and recommendations made,
E inspections conducted, and/or any other actions taken as
a result of the statements of Dr. King which are described
in Item 17.a. above.

18. Identification of the author of the notation "Being Handled,
11/20/64, D" which appears at the bottom of page 4 of Mr.
Rosen's November 20, 1964 memorandum to Mr. Belmont, subject
"Telegram from Martin Luther King, Jr., dated November 19,
1964, Civil Rights Matters."

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 12

4

19. All materials reflecting the manner in which Director
Hoover's notation was "(being handled" as noted on the
bottom of page 4 of Mr. Rosen's November 20, 1964 memorandum
to Mr. Belmont, Subject "Telegram from Martin Luther King,
Jr., dated November 19, 1964, Civil Rights Matters,"
together with all materials reflecting what steps were
taken and by whom.
NP
20. The response to John Doar's August 19, 1964 letter to
Mr. James R. Malley which requested a name check with
respect to persons who were delegates of the Mississippi
Freedom Democratic Party.
NP
21. The division and section assignment of James R. Malley as
of August 19, 1964.
22. All materials which reflect approval of Mr. Sullivan's
PREY. HANDI recommendations which were contained in the latter's
7/14
November 22 and 27, 1964 memoranda to Mr., Belmont,
subject "Communism and the Negro Movement--A Current
Amlysis."

23. All materials reflecting contacts or communications between
Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Mohr, and between Mr. Sullivan and Mr.
DeLoach, as described in the second paragraph of Mr.
Sullivan's November 27, 1964 memorandum to Mr. Belmont,
subject "Communism and the Negro Movement--A Current
Analysis."

24. The table of contents page(s) and/or chapter or section
headings of:
a. The article captioned "Communism and the Negro Movement--
A Current Analysis" which was attached to Mr. Sullivan's
10/15/63 memorandum to Mr. Belmont under the same
caption.

b. The paper which was the up-to-date revision of the
article described in Item 24 (a) above and which paper was
attached to Mr. Sullivan's November 22, 1964 memorandum to
Mr. Belmont, subject "Communism and the Negro Movement--A
Current Analysis."

c. The memorandum captioned "Martin Luther King, Jr.: His
Personal Conduct" which was transmitted with the December
21, 1964 letter from Director Hoover to Senator Hubert
H. Humphrey.

NW 88614 Docla: 32989673-Page 13

5

d. The document which was the "current revision of the
previous analysis captioned 'Communism and the Negro
Movement - A Current Analysis" and which document was
enclosed with Mr. Drennan's April 10, 1967 mmemorandum
to Mr. Sullivan captioned "Communist Influence in Racial
Matters - A Current Analysis."

e. The "current study" entitled "Martin Luther King, Jr.
- A-Current Analysis" which was enclosed with Director
Hoover's March 14, 1968 letter to Mrs. Mildred Stegall.

25. All materials reflecting theprinting of any of the documents
identified in Item 24. a. e. above. (Do not supply the
documents themselves.)

26. An identification of any materials (e.g. transcripts) which
were attached to any of the documents identified in Item 24
a. e. above. (Do not supply the attachments themselves.)

27. All materials reflecting that:
a. "Mr. Tolson has suggested," and
b. "the Director agreed,"
that"the monograph on Martin Luther King, Jr. be brought up
to date as reflected in the first paragraph of lir. Moore's
2/29/68 memorandum to Mr. Sullivan, subject "Martin Luther
King, Jr., Security Matter - c."

28. All materials which reflect any recommendations for, and/or
COUNTE decisions relating to the sending of Director Hoover's
August 25, 1957 letter to specified field offices captioned
"Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist - Hate
Groups, Internal Security."

29. All materials reflecting the approval of proposals contained
you in Mr. G. C. Moore's February 29, 1968 memorandum to Mr. W. C.
Sullivan, captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Black
Nationalist - Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence."

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 14

6

30. All materials reflecting that "(w) ith Bureau approval,
(William C. Sullivan) had previously given (Ralph) McGill
some of the basic facts concerning King's connections with
communism and his (deleted)," as indicated in Mr. Sullivan's
January 21, 1965 memorandum to Mr. A. H. Belmont, subject
"Martin Luther King, Jr., Security Matter - c."

31. All materials reflecting contact by Special Agent Alden
F. Miller or by any FBI Headquarters officials with
Eugene Patterson concerning Martin Luther King, Jr., as
proposed by Special Agent Miller in a telephone conver-
sation with Mr. Sullivan on January 15, 1964. (See
Mr. Sullivan's 1/16/64 memorandum to Mr. Belmont, subject
"Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence
in Racial Matters, Internal Security - c.")

32. All materials reflecting the "further recommendation as
to whether we are in a position at that time (the end
of a 90-day period, or sooner if conditions permit) to
take further action against King and the SCLC without
embarrassment to the Bureau," as promised in Mr. Sullivan's
December 24, 1963 memorandum to Mr. Belmont, subject
"Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence
in Racial Matters, Internal Security - Communist."

33. All materials reflecting "the suggestion recently made by
(the Atlanta field office) that another conference be
held at the Seat of Government with representatives of
(the Atlanta) office and the New York Office," as indicated
in the second paragraph of the Director's April 1, 1964
letter to the SAC, Atlanta, captioned "Communist Party, USA,
Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters,
Internal Security - c."

34. All materials reflecting recommendations for, and
approval of, the sending of the Director's April 1, 1964
letter to the SAC, Atlanta, captioned "Communist Party,
USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial
Matters, Internal Security - c."

35. All materials comprising the "separate correspondence"
between FBI Headquarters and the Atlanta field office
concerning the "specific matters dealt with in Atlanta's
letter (of 4/14/64)" as indicated in the Director's
4/24/64 letter to the SAC, Atlanta, captioned "Communist
Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in
Racial Matters, Internal Security - c."

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 15

7-

36. The communication from the Atlanta field office to FBI
Headquarters by which "this publication has previously
been furnished to the Bureau on 6/26/64," as stated in
the second paragraph of page 3 of the 7/7/64 letter
from the SAC, Atlanta, to the FBI Director, captioned
"Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist
Influence in Racial Matters, IS-C."
P
37. The "separate correspondence" by which the Atlanta
field office was "directed to furnish the Bureau
available information concerning the alleged escapades
of (the Reverend Ralph) Abernathy, including the
obtaining of official court records," as referred to
in the Director's July 23, 1964 letter to the SAC,
Atlanta, captioned "Communist Party, USA, Negro Question,
Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security
C."
Deegan's
office
38. The letter from the Director to Mr. Moyers which was
originally attached to Mr. Sullivan's 11/27/64 memorand m
to Mr. Belmont, subject "Communism and the Negro Movement
- A Current Analysis." (See note on 11/27/64 memorandum
indicating that the letter was "revised.")

39. "The letter" which is the subject of the first and second
paragraphs of Director Hoover's February 5, 1964 memorandum
concerning his 9:51 a.m. telephone call from the Attorney
General, and which letter the Director told the Attorney
General, he would "check on" and any other materials
relating to "the letter".
P
40. All materials concerning or pertaining to Martin Luther
King, Jr. being named "Man of the Year" by Time Magazine
in December 1963 - January 1964.
P
41. All materials concerning or pertaining to Dr. King's
Papal audience in Rome in September 1964.

42. Speech delivered by Director Hoover at Loyola College in
November 1964, and all materials pertaining thereto.
NP
43. All Forms FD. 185 and attachments (including forms
entitled "Performance Rating Guide for Investigative
Personnel") from 1963 until 1968 for:
a. William D. Campbell, and
b. John Matter.

NW 88614 Docld:32989673 Page 16

8

ATLANTA
1.
45. All materials reflecting, concerning or pertaining
to electronic surveillance, feasibility studies or
surveys, physical surveillance, or photographic
surveillances, and/or any proposals, recommendations
or discussions of any of the foregoing surveillances, studies
or surveys, with respect to Dr. King's "hideaway", or Fred
Bennett's apartment, or premises located at 3006 Delmar
Lane, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia, or with respect to any other
premises, apartment, or "hideaway", used, owned, or leased by
Dr. King or Fred Bennett.

46. The following materials which are referred to in the
October 9, 1962 letter from the Director to the SAC,
New York, captioned "Communist Party, USA, Counterintelli-
gence Program, Internal Security - C":
Klem
Cointel Pro
Ryou?
a. "NYlet 9/26/62";

b. "further steps to carry out this counterintelligence
plan will be handled at the Bureau";
c. "memorandum Baumgardner to Sullivan, same caption
dated October 8, 1962, ARW:cdb."

47. The "ATairtel and letterhead memorandum (LHM) dated
4/1/64 captioned "CPUSA, Negro Question, Communist
Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security-C" and
"Communist Infiltration of the Southern Christian
Leadership Conference, IS-C", which are referenced in
the 4/13/64 Airtel from the Director to the SAC, New York
and Atlanta, captioned "Communist Party, USA, Counter-
intelligence Program, Internal SEcurity - C (Negro Question)."

48. An unexcised copy (except for the identity of informants)
of the 8/15/66 airtel from the SAC, New York, to the
Director, subject "Communist Party, USA, Counterintelligence
Program, Internal Secuirty - C (Stanley David Levison.)"

49. The Memorandum which "the Director had noted" as referred
to in the NOTE at the bottom of the 4/13/65 letter from
the Director to the SAC, New York, subject "Communist
Party, USA Counterintelligence Program, Internal Security
- C (Nicholas A. Kourambis) (Negro Question)."

NW 88614 Docld:32989673..Page 17-

9

Klesa
50. All materials reflem reflecting "comments" and "specific
Cointedtro
O and New York field offices as the result of the instructions.
Kilei Wan contained in the last paragraph of the May 18, 1967 letter
ConfulP8051.
Papinp
from the Director the SAC, New York, captioned "Communist
Party, USA, Counterintelligence Program, Internal Security
- C (Martin Luther King)."

All materials reflecting the product of the "comprehensive
review of Levison's Bureau case file" as indicated in the
NOTE on the 7/18/66 airtel from the Director to the SAC,
New York, captioned "Communist Party, USA, Counter-
intelligence Program, Internal Security - C (Stanley
David Levison)."

NW-886-14-Doeld 32989673 Page 18
==End of OCR for page 18==