JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 06/13/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10297
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-98177-2

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : LEG, MX
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 05/26/61
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : LHJ, RES, REL, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/13/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318
Docld:34489645 Page 1

CONFIDENTIAL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI MAY 26 1961

FROM: LEGAT, MEXICO CITY

SUBJECT: LOUIS HENRY JONES
IS - CUBA
(MC 105-2226)

LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES
IS - CUBA
(MC 105-2227)

BETH MICHEL WOLLAND
IS - CUBA
(MC 105-2228)

JOHN ARTHUR SWEETMAN
IS - CUBA
(MC 105-2225)

Classified by
11-16-94 SPSMACL
Declassify on: OADS JFK

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. IM

6-25-97
SLD/KSR
7-24-97
(JFK)
DECLASSIFIED BY 5/68-520/mde
ON 8/4/97 (@FK)

ReBulets 4/17/61 and 5/12/61.

The records of the Citizenship Unit, U. S. Embassy,
Mexico, D. F., as checked by SA WALLACE R. HEITMAN on 4/27/61,
reflect information concerning LOUIS HENRY JONES and LENNA
SCHWEITZER JONES, but do not reflect information for JOHN
ARTHUR SWEETMAN or BETH MICHEL WOLLAND.

These citizenship records reflect that LOUIS HENRY
JONES registered at the U. S. Embassy, showing that he was
the bearer of U.S. Passport #1595957, issued 5/28/59 and
expires 5/27/61; renewed 4/19/61 and expires 5/27/63. This
registration shows LOUIS HENRY JONES was born 3/17/34, Arlington
Heights, Ohio, and reflects his New York address as 309 West
99th St., New York City and personsto notify in the event of
an emergency as Dr. MORTON D. SCHWEITZER, 310 West 94th St.,
New York City, and EARL ROJONES, Rural Route #3, Lebanon,
Ohio. The residence of LOUIS HENRY JONES in Mexico City was

Bureau
(4 - Chicago)
(4 - Cleveland)
(4 - Detroit, 105-5947)
(4 - Indianapolis
(1 - WFO)
(4 - Mexico City
Unit 13
(29)

CONFIDENTIAL REC 22 105-96177-2

16 JUN 1961
Copy to Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, WFO
by routing slip for INDIANOPOTIS
Info action
date 6-9-61
by Fey/st

NW 78318
Docld:34489645 Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

MC 105-2226

given as Calle Rhin 29-7, telephone 35-14-15. The registration
shows that LOUIS HENRY JONES stated that he intended to be
absent from the U. S. for approximately one year.

The citizenship records concerning LENNA SCHWEITZER
JONES reflected that she is the holder of U. S. Passport
#1595958, issued on 5/28/59 and expires 5/27/61; renewed
4/19/61 to expire 5/27/63. Her birth date was shown as
4/13/35 at Pasadena, California. Her address in Mexico City
and persons to notify in case of an emergency were listed
the same as on the registration of LOUIS HENRY JONES, above.
LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES, on her registration, showed that she
intended to be absent for a period of one year. It is noted
that there is no photograph of either subject in citizenship
files, Mexico, D. F.

MEX-427 protect identity who has furnished reliable
information in the past, advised on 5/15/61 that the address
at Calle Rhin 29 is a building known as the Hotel Carmen.
Inquiry be MEX-42 at this address reflected one LOUIS JONES
and family, address 401 West Hoover, Ann Arbor, Michigan,
professor and student, had registered at the hotel on 4/3/61
and had resided in Apartment #7, with a person reportedly
his wife and another woman until 5/5/61, on which date the
three persons left the hotel in an automobile, destination
unknown.

MEX-42 was unable to obtain a description of the
automobile or to determine by his inquiries of where these
persons went, who are believed to be identical with LOUIS
HENRY JONES, LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES and BETH MICHEL WOLLAND.

CIA Station, Mexico, D. F., has been requested to
furnish any information in their files for the subjects.

LEAD

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

AT MEXICO, D. F.

Will continue, through sources and informants, to
determine if the captioned individuals left Mexico
for Cuba.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 78318
Docld:34489645 Page 3

MC 105-2226

CONFIDENTIAL

Additional copies of this memorandum are being
furnished the Bureau for the information of the Cleveland,
Chicago, Detroit, Indianapolis and Washington Field Offices.

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 78318
Docld:34489645 Page 4
