JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 08/10/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10203-10466
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-191

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, PG
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 08/07/61
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : GM, ASSOC, SMO, TRA, MM, FL, MURIN, MARTIN, B/F INT, DISPUTE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318
Docld:34489449 Page 1

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

UREAU OF INVESTIGATION
PARTMENT OF JUSTICE
NICATIONS SECTION
UG: 7 1961
TELETYPE

URGENT 8-7-61 P 4-25 PM NP

TO, DIRECTOR, FEI-92-2914--92-2918 AND SAC, MIAMI-92-155

FROM, SAC, PITTSBURGH -92-236--92-228

Mr. Conrad
Mr. DeLoach.
Mr. Evans.
Mr. Malone.
Mr. Rosen.
Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Tavel.
Mr. Trotter
Tele. Roo
Mr. Ingram
Miss Gandy.

GARBIEL MANNARINO, ALSO KNOWN AS, AR, SAMUEL MANNARINO, ALSO
KNOWN AS, ARPG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C ADVISED THAT ON THE EVENING
OF AUGUST FIVE LAST, VICTOR STANZIANO AND WILLIE SAMS, BOTH
OF NEW KENSINGTON, PA, AGREED THAT SAMS WOULD GO TO GREATER
PITTSBURGH AIRPORT THAT EVENING TO PICK UP SAM MANNARINO WHO
WAS ARRIVING FROM MIAMI, FLORIDA, ACCOMPANIED BY AN UNIDENTIFIED
MAN. STANZIANO STATED THAT THE MANNARINOS ARE CONTROLLED
IN SOME RESPECTS BY QUOTE SOME BIG GUYS UPSTAIRS。UNQUOTE,
FOR EXAMPLE, HE POINTED OUT THAT IN NINETEEN SIXTY, THE
MANNARINOS BECAME ANGRY AT A NEW KENSINGTON CONTRACTOR NAMED
MARTIN MURIN, WHO HAD FRONTED SOME OF THEIR LEGITIMATE
BUSINESS HOLDINGS AND WHO BROKE AWAY FROM THEM AFTER A DISPUTE。
THE MANNARINOS MADE ARRANGEMENTS FOR A QUOTE TORPEDO UNQUOTE
REC- 35 92-2914-191
FROM SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIALITO QUOTE TAKE CARE OF UNQUOTE
MURIN. HOWEVER, FOR SOME REASON, QUOTE THE BIG GUYS UNQUOTE
AUG 8 1961
25
HECE AED-FATHE
66 AUG 11196)

NW 78318
Docld:34489449 Page 2

PAGE TWO

HEARD ABOUT THEIR PLANS AND ORDERED THE MANNARINOS NOT TO
HARM MURIN。MIAMI WILL CONTACT EASTERN AIRLINES AND FIND
OUT WHICH FLIGHT SAM MANNARINO TOOK WHICH ARRIVED PITTSBURGH
EVENING OF AUGUST FIVE LAST AND IDENTIFICATION OF HIS TRAVELLING
COMPANION。BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND
DANGEROUS。

END ACK PLS
4-30 PM OK FBI WA MSL
MM OK FBI MM ΜΗ
DISC
VV

NW 78318
Docld:34489449 Page 3
улезн.1
LBI
VEC.O-LETELALE NUIL
