File #:
62-116395

Serial Scope:
51 THRU 100
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025
2-Mr. S. F. Phillips
April 30, 1975
MATERIAL FOR SEMATE SELECT COMMITEE (SSC)
INVESTIGATING INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

1. organization of
Assoc. Dir.

2. ORIGINATING ORGANIZATION: FBI

3. NATURE OF MATERIAL: Letterhead memorandum

4. DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

5. NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION STAMP: NA

6. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS:

LHM refers to request of the SSC for a list of
names and titles of certain FBI Intelligence Division (NTD)
personnel at FBIHQ and numbers only of certain other LTD
personnel; and relates agreement reached between FBI officials
and Mr. William Miller, Staff Director of the SSC, that the
original request be modified as follows. The FBI will prepare
the necessary list and make it available for review at FBIHQ
by appropriately cleared personnel of the SSC Staff.

7. REQUESTER/DATE OF REQUEST: SSC 3/19/75 112323 10:0

8. RELEASING AUTHORLIY: FBI REC-106

9. DATE OF SUBMISSION: 4/8/75

16 MAY 7 197

10. LOCATION OF FILE COPY: FBI file 62-116395-53

11. NONE. #MOR16
ALL TUTOMATION CONTAINED
DIST 1/19/6/ SP-2ALNTERG
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
*Asst. Dir.:
Admin,
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
SFP:eku (4)
NOTE: Original via liaison to Central Community Index in
connection with Senstudy 75.

GPO 2546
NW 88608 DocId:32989628 Page 2

-113a (Rev. 3-21-73)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
DERFTA IS UNCLASSIFIED
5/12-19-8859-5 /

intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE
Date 4/25/75

You were previously advised that
Douglas Durham, former MP 4115-E, who has
furnished high-level information regarding
activities of the American Indian Movement
(AIM), after being confronted by AIM lead-
ers, admisted being a confidential infor-
mant for the FBI. This information has
been made public.

Attached teletype from Omaha advises
that Assistant U. S. Attorney Keith E. Uhl
Office of Special Prosecutor, stated he
received a telephone call 4/24/75 from
Durham and that Durham told him he had been
contacted by representatives of the Office
of Senator Frank Church, Washington, D. С.,
requesting Durham's presence in Washington
during the week of April 28, 1975, for
purpose of attending staff meetings to
determine his potential as a witness before
committee investigating operations of the
FBI. Durham indicated he intended to com-
ply and would have no further contact with
the FBI. We are following this matter
closely and you will be kept advised.

1 - General Investigative Division
1 - Legal Counsel Division
1 - External Affairs Division
1 - William O. Cregar

WRW
JEDIULIA
Jember Inas
DOJ/FBI
PLM
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 3
NR005 OM PLAIN
:
4:39PM NITEL 4/24/75 RRH

TO: DIRECTOR (137-33264)

FROM: MINNEAPOLIS (157-1458)
OMAHA (170-231) (P)
FORMER MP 4115-E. Conf-Smit
COMMIONLAFONS SECERUN
APR 241975
INFORMATION CONTAINED
N IS UNCLASSIFIED
TELETYPE12-19-88 BISP-5cl/ahn
:

SENStudy-T

ON APRIL 24, 1975, AUSA KEITH E. UHL, ADVISED HE
RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL FROM SUBJECT RELATING SUBJECT
HAD BEEN CONTACTED, BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE OFFICE
OF SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, WASHINGTON, D.C., REQUESTING
HIS PRESENCE IN WASHINGTON DURING WEEK OF APRIL 28,
1975, FOR PURPOSE OF STAFF MEETINGS TO DETERMINE
SUBJECT'S POTENTIAL AS WITNESS BEFORE CHURCH
COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING OPERATIONS OF THE FBI.

SUBJECT INDICATED HE INTENDED TO COMPLY WITH REQUES
AND HAD DECIDED THAT IN VIEW OF THIS DEVELOPMENT, HE
WOULD DECLINE AND NOT SOLICIT ANY FURTHER CONTACT WITH
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FBI.

END.

RSP FBIHQ
A
Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Ad
Dep.-A.D.-Inv
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com I
Gen. inv
Ident.
Iut 2lt.
Latorry
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. inv.
Training
Legal Coun
Telephone B
Director Ser
5.
Le
18 MAY 2 1975
Original Filed In 137-38564-64
DOMY 30-1975
NIVE
62-116370-A NALA
NOT RECORDED
Phil
JUN 1 1 1975
}
JUN 1.1.1075
NW-88608 -DocId32989628 Page 4

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
то
:
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
MR. W. R. WANNALL
FROM MR. W. O. CRECAS
:
CREGARO
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75
#MDR16
-
Assoc. Dir.
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
Dep. AD Adm.
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
Dep. AD Inv.
DATE: April 22, 1975
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
Comp. Syst.
1 - Mr. A. L. Lacey
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
Gen. Inv.
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
Ident.
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2ALM/116
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

The purpose of this memorandum is to record that
on 4/18/75 Mr. James Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the
President, Executive Office Building, stated he had reviewed a
final copy of the Intelligence Division Position Paper on
Jurisdiction including Exhibit L, pages 36 and 37. Mr. Wilderotter
advised Bureau Supervisor Alonzo L. Lacey that The White House
interposed no objection to the Jurisdiction paper being furnished
to the Senate Select Committee.

With reference to the study entitled Intelligence
Division Position Paper on Jurisdiction, Mr. Wilderotter requested
that he be furnished a copy and this was done. In addition,
Wilderotter had previously on 4/4/75 reviewed the paper for
approval of the use of items concerning Presidential or National
Security Council interest.

ACTION:
For information and record purposes.

ALL:ekwpu
(5)

62-116395
84 ΜΑΥ 7 1975
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 5
PCM
REC-106
REC
162-11637
G
5-7
A70
дта
OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
SA GEN, REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES ERNMENT
Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. AV Mintz
1-Mr. J. A. Mintz
1-Mr.W. R. Wannall
1-Mr.W.O. Cregar
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
,
DATE: 4/7/75
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
1-Mr. A. B. Fulton
Gen. Inv.
1-Mr. A. L. Lacey, Jr.
FROM : Mr. W. R. Wannall
SENStudy
SUBJECT INTELLIGENCE DIVISION POSITION PAPER
DATE 7-7-00 BY 3906 3. ELUTABLE/AMW
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
Ident.
Inspection
Inte
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Now Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
ля
ON AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT NATIONAL SECURITY
INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS

ecurity Juridiction

The purpose of this memorandum is to summarize investigative
efforts to authenticate Hoover memoranda dated 8/24-25/36.

Document Section, FBI Laboratory, determined the type appearing
on Hoover memorandum dated 8/25/36 was prepared on a Remington typewriter
with an elite type used since October, 1935. Hoover memorandum to Tamm dated
9/10/36, was prepared on an IBM typewriter with pica-style type used since 1930.

The letterhead used on both Hoover memoranda of 8/24-25/36 was
authorized FBI stationery effective August 14, 1936.

On 3/10/75, Mr. Donald B. Schewe, Assistant Librarian, Reference
Archives, Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, New York, advised that
The White House Ushers Appointment Book contained entries showing that
on Thursday, August 24, 1936, from 9:20 a.m. to 10:12 a.m., President
Roosevelt met with Mr. Hoover in his residence at The White House prior to
leaving for his office. Schewe pointed out that this meeting was significant
since President Roosevelt met Mr. Hoover immediately after returning from
an extended trip, a departure from his usual practice. There was no entry
on 8/25/36, other than the President's departure for the Dakotas at 10:40 p.m.

On 4/2/75, review of Cordell Hull Papers, Library of Congress,
reflected that a Desk Diary (container #68, folder #295, microfilm #38) of
Secretary Hull contained an entry on 8/25/36 that the Secretary had luncheon
with the President between 1:00p.m. to 3:15 p.m.

Detailed memorandum attached.

ACTION:

For information.
ל
200
5 ENCLOSURE
Finsur
ALL: vb.
ya
INW 88608 Doald:82989628 Page 6
MW

Original Filed In
:
:
Mr. White
J. H. Mortimer

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. TAMM
FROM JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DATED SEPTEMBER 10, 1936;
CONFIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM BY
February 27, 1975

JOHN EDGAR HOOVER DATED AUGUST 25, 1936.

On this date, SA Alonzo L. Lacey of the Intelligence
Division delivered the above-captioned memoranda to the Laboratory
with a request to determine the make of typewriter employed in
the preparation of the memoranda and the date of introduction
of the type styles employed. The purpose of this investigation
was to ascertain whether or not the type styles on the typewriters
used to write the memoranda were in use on the dates appearing
on the memoranda.

It was determined that the "Memorandum For Mr. Tamm
from John Edgar Hoover dated September 10, 1936" was prepared
on an IBM typewriter equipped with a pica style of type which
has been in use since 1930. The typewriting comprising the
"Confidential Memorandum by John Edgar Hoover dated August 25,
1936" was determined to have been prepared on a Remington
typewriter equipped with an elite style of type that has been in
use since October, 1935.
:
The memoranda were returned to SA Lacey.:

RECOMMENDATION:

The result of this examination be forwarded to the
Intelligence Division

Mr. Wannall
Mr. Lacey
Mr. White
1
1
1
-
1
-
Mr. Oberg
Mr. Mortimer

WSO:mrg
(6)

ENCLOSURE
21 1849
NW 88608. Docld:32989628 Page 7
62-1163951
ENCLOSURE
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

August 14,1936.

Mr. Carey
Mr. Dawey
Mr. Edwards
M. Egan.
Mr. Farverth
Mr. Glavin
M. Hasko
Hir. Jester
Mr. Nichois.
Mr. Quisa.
21. Schiller
Mr. Tammun
Mr. Tracy.
uss Cand
2
JROR
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 8
6672
CZ-V63959
ENCLOSURE
EDGAR HOOVER
• DIRECTOR

Federal Ebrreau of Investigation
United States Department of Justice
Washington, D. C.

Catar
Me, Harbo
Mr. Lester
Me. Micha's
Mr.T
Mr. Trasy
Gandy

DESTROYZO
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 9
622-116375-
ENCLOSURE

Eo: 62-667271840
Mar 13, 1975
:

RESEARCH CONDUCTED AT FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT LIBRARY, HYDE PARK, NY
ON 3/10-12/75

On 3/10/74, Mr. DONALD B. SCHEWE, Assistant
Librarian in the Reference Archives, Franklin D. Roosevelt
Library, Hyde Park, NY, was advised of our interest in
locating any communications bearing upon a conversation.
between former President FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT and former
Secretary of State CORDELL HULL in the latter part of
August, 1936. Mr. SCHEWE was advised that this conversation
was concerned with the security of the US and that Mr. J.
EDGAR HOOVER of the FBI may have participated in this
conversation. Mr. SCHEWE was also advised that Mr. ROOSEVELT
allegedly reduced the subject matter of above conversation
to a memorandum and that we were interested in locating.
this memorandum or some information bearing upon above
conversation. Arrangements were made to meet with Mr. SCHEWE
at the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, NY,
on 3/12/75. Mr. SCHEWE indicated that in the meantime
he would conduct some research in this matter.

On 3/12/75, Mr. SCHEWE advised that he had
conducted some research relative to our telephone call
on 3/10/75, and inquired if we could be more specific
with regard to the dates of the information desired.
"SCHEWE was advised that to the best of our knowledge the
conversation we were interested in involving FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT (FDR), HULL and Mr. HOOVER, occurred on
approximately 8/24-26/36 and that the conversation concerned
the internal security of the US.
:
::
Mr. SCHEWE, at this point, furnished a Xerox
copy of a "buck slip" dated 8/24/36, (copy of which is
attached) on White House stationery, classified "Confidential
and addressed to the Secretary of State from FDR".
Mr. SCHEWE stated that "buck slips" are nothing more
than a cover memorandum utilized to transmit communications
which are attached thereto. It is to be noted that this
"buck slip" indicates that attached to it was a memorandum
for the Secretary of State, unsigned, undated and
recommending coordination of activities of all agents
of the Government in foreign countries. SCHEWE advised
NW-88608 Docld:32989628 Page.10
62-7163.95-
ENCLOSURE
that the synopsis of this memorandum which appears on.
the "buck slip" was the usual practice at that time to
identify the documents attached to it. SCHEWE added.
that this was the only document he was able to locate
which may have some bearing on the desired information.
SCHEWE stated that the possibility exists that the
referred to memorandum may be located among the collection
of papers of CORDELL HULL which are now stored at the
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.

Mr. SCHEWE then exhibited to interviewing personnel
the White House Ushers Appointment Book which was
hand-written and kept on a daily basis. This appointment
book contained the following pertinent information:

Thursday, August 13, 1936, at 9:50 AM
FDR departed the White House for a visit
to the flood areas in NY, Ohio and Pennsyl-
vania.

Thursday, August 24, 1936, FDR returned
to White House at 8:45 AM.
9:20 AM FDR met with Mr. HOOVER from
9:20 AM to 10:12 AM.
-
(Note * There is no entry in this book
for Aug. 24, 1936, indicating that Mr.
HULL was there. Mr. SCHEWE advised that
it is interesting to note that. FDR met
Mr. HOOVER in his residence in the White
House on 8/24/36, prior to leaving for
his office in the White House. SCHEWE
also pointed out that this meeting was
significant since FDR met with Mr. HOOVER
on 8/24/36, immediately after returning
from an extended trip. This, according
to SCHEWE was a departure from FDR's
usual practice.

There was no record in the White House
Usher's Appointment Book for 8/25/36, which would indicate
that FDR met with either Mr. HULL or Mr. HOOVER on that
date. This book indicates that FDR departed the White
House on Tuesday, 8,/25/75, at 10:40 PM for a trip to the
draught areas, in upper Maine, South Dakota and North
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 11
2
that the synopsis of this memorandum which appears on.
the "buck slip" was the usual practice at that time to
identify the documents attached to it. SCHEWE added.
that this was the only document he was able to locate
which may have some bearing on the desired information.
SCHEWE stated that the possibility exists that the
referred to memorandum may be located among the collection
of papers of CORDELL HULL which are now stored at the
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.

Mr. SCHEWE then exhibited to interviewing personnel
the White House Ushers Appointment Book which was
hand-written and kept on a daily basis. This appointment
book contained the following pertinent information:

Thursday, August 13, 1936, at 9:50 AM
FDR departed the White House for a visit
to the flood areas in NY, Ohio and Pennsyl-
vania.

Thursday, August 24, 1936, FDR returned
to White House at 8:45 AM.
9:20 AM FDR met with Mr. HOOVER from
9:20 AM to 10:12 AM.
-
(Note * There is no entry in this book
for Aug. 24, 1936, indicating that Mr.
HULL was there. Mr. SCHEWE advised that
it is interesting to note that. FDR met
Mr. HOOVER in his residence in the White
House on 8/24/36, prior to leaving for
his office in the White House. SCHEWE
also pointed out that this meeting was
significant since FDR met with Mr. HOOVER
on 8/24/36, immediately after returning
from an extended trip. This, according
to SCHEWE was a departure from FDR's
usual practice.

There was no record in the White House
Usher's Appointment Book for 8/25/36, which would indicate
that FDR met with either Mr. HULL or Mr. HOOVER on that
date. This book indicates that FDR departed the White
House on Tuesday, 8,/25/75, at 10:40 PM for a trip to the
draught areas, in upper Maine, South Dakota and North
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 11
2
Dakota, as well as a visit to Mt. Rushmore. FDR did not
return to the White House until Sunday, Sept. 6, 1936,
at 10:02 AM.

The White House Usher's Appointment Book
further reflects that FDR, during the period July 10,
1936, to Aug. 10, 1936, was away from the White House
campaigning. FDR returned to the White House on
8/10/36, and remained there until 8/13/36, when he
again departed on a trip and returned on 8/24/36.
FDR also departed from the White House on 8/25/36,
and returned on 9/6/36.

Mr. SCHEWE also produced to interviewing
personnel the appointment book of FDR's private secretary,
GRACE TULLY for the pertinent period. This appointment book
reflects all of FDR's office appointments. A review
of this appointment book fails to reflect that FDR met
or had an appointment with Mr. HOOVER in his office
during the period 8/13/36 to 9/6/36. However, this
appointment book does reflect that during this period
FDR did have a meeting with CORDELL HULL on 8/25/36,
at 1:00 PM.
:

Mr. SCHEWE further advised that he personally
reviewed the following and was unable to locate any
documents or references which could possibly shed some
light on the matter of interest to us:

1.) Papers kept in FDR's safe.

2.) Papers kept by his secretary in a separate
White House safe.

3.) Papers kept in FDR's official presidential
file.

4.) Papers kept in FDR's alphabetical file
maintained by his secretary..

5.) Individual agencies files.

6.) J. EDGAR HOOVER'S file.

NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 12
3
7.) Attorney General's file.

8.) Assistant Attorney General's file.

9.) National Security file.

10.) Internal Security file.

11.) FBI file.

In conclusion, Mr.SCHEWE stated that after
reviewing all of the above data, he concluded that the
pertinent document of interest to us is not at the FDR
Library at Hyde Park, NY. SCHEWE added that if any
such document is at the Library, it is misfiled and
as there are approximately 21 million pages of manuscripts
and documents at the Library, it would be impossible
to locate same.
:
:
It is to be noted that on the enclosed
"buck slip" there are four penciled notations, i.e.
285-C, X20, X285 and X67. SCHEWE stated that these
notaions are part of the FDR Library cross-reference
system. SCHEWE added that he checked these references
and could locate nothing further regarding the matter
of interest to us. SCHEWE stated that these references
pertained to the enclosed "buck slip".

NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 13
285-0
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

CONFIDENTIAL, August 24, 1935.

MEMORANDUM FOR
THE SECRETARY OF STATE x20
:
x255
I find this in my file,
dating back two months. As I
:
understand it everybody is
agreed on it. What is the next
stepi

F. D. R.

Memo. from State, unsigned and undated, recommend-
ing coordination of activities of all agents of the
:
govt. in foreign countries: each agency as it is
x67 related to the others, and all in their relation
to the State Department; makes 9 recommendations
of coordination.

62-11 6 3 95-
ENCLOSURE
ALLFELD
21-18-01 SP ZALM
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 14
CTARICO
NR003 AX CODE

TO 11:43PM NITEL MAY 3, 1975 WMM
DIRECTOR (62-116395)

FROM ALEXANDRIA (62-NEW) (P)
SENSTUDY 75
MAY 08 1975

TELETAPE
ALL INFORMATION CONTIMOR16
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE
Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Adm......
Dep.-A.D.-Inv.....
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection,
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
975.0093/19/05/G D
RE BUTEL MAY 2, 1975.20
Chasier
FORMER BUREAU AGENT WILLIAM P. GEORGE, 6302 GOLF COURSE SQUARE,
ALEXANDRIA, VA., CONTACTED MAY 2, 1975 AND STATED THAT IN EVENT HE IS
CONTACTED BY STAFF OF SENATE OR HOUSE COMMITTEES, HE MAY REFUSE TO BE
INTERVIEWED, BUT IF HE CONSENTS TO BE INTERVIEWED HE WILL REQUEST
PRESENCE OF FRI AGENT, IF QUESTIONS ARE ASKED RELATIVE TO SENSATIVE
TO BUREAU OPERATIONS.

5
INQUIRY AT RESIDENCE OF HAROLD P. LEINBAUGH, 1160 WIMBLEDON
DRIVE, MC LEAN, VA., ON MAY 2, 1975, REVEALS THAT HE IS PRESENTLY AT
CLES MEDITERRANEAN, HOTEL CARAVELLE, ST. ANNE, GUADALUPE, FRENCH
in
م
INDIES. HE IS EXPECTED TO RETURN TO HIS RESIDENCE ON MAY 18, 1975.
REC- 106 62-116370-98
BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO ADVISE IF ALEXANDRIA SHOULD CONTACT
LESENBAUGH UPON HIS RETURN.

TJT FBI WASH DC CLR
Sact
84-MAT & 4975
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 15
16 MAY 7 1975
cc67-5853309)
4
NR 002 BA PLAIN
FEDERAL CURLOU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

1220PM URGENT MAY 3, 1975 BJD
MAY 03.1975
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)
TELETYPE
FROM: BALTIMORE (62-NEW)

SENSTUDY 75

RE BUREAU TEL, MAY 2, 1975.

DONALD G. HANNING, 18 OXFORD STREET, CHEVY CHASE,
MARYLAND, CONTACTED INSTANT DATE BY SAC, BALTIMORE.
INSTRUCTIONS IN REFERENCED TELETYPE FOLLOWED. HANNING
ADVISED HAD NOT BEEN CONTACTED BY ANY REPRESENTATIVE OF
THE SENATE OR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO DATE. ADVISED
WOULD CONTACT SAC, BALTIMORE SHOULD HE BE CONTACTED IN
THE FUTURE.

ENDDSS FBIHO CCLR
REC-106
Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Adm..
Dep.-A.D.-Inv...
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection po
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
62-11630-97

16 MAY 7 1975

COPY RETAINED IN
PERSONNEL RECORDS UNIT
#MORIG
DYSP-2ALM/A
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HARTT 7S UNCLASSIFIED
DOZ
4 MAY 8 1975
NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 16
A
5
67-115395
:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
NR 09 OM PLAIN
MAY 02 1975
TELETYPE
7:00 PM CST URGENT MAY 2, 1975 SKH
ΤΟ: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

FROM: ОМАНА (62-NEW) (P)
SENSTUDY 75.
#MDR16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HUREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2ALMIITG
RE BUREAU TELETYPE. MAY 2, 1975.73

FORMER SA JOHN J. QUINN WAS CONTACTED BY ME PERSONALLY
AND ADVISED PER INSTRUCTIONS IN RETEL. HE WAS APPRECIATIVE
OF ADVANCED NOTICE RE POSSIBLE INTERVIEW AND STATED THAT
HE WOULD DESIRE AN AGENT BE PRESENT IF SUCH INTERVIEW
OCCURS. STATED HE WOULD PERSONALLY CONTACT ME IF HE IS
CONTACTED BY STAFF MEMBERS.

END.
BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.
MAH FBIHQ ACK FOR ONE
WA CRLR
7

REC-106
Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Adm.......
Dep.-A.D.-Inv
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell. W
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
Ke
62-116375.96

16 MAY 7 1975
سوریه
-

م
COPY RETAINED IN
PERSONNEL RECORDS UNITE
N 886Abadid: 3189628 Page 17
CC
67-436724(Quinn)
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
#MDR/6
ALL INFORMATION CONTATILO
ESIK IS VJOLASSIFLO
2 - Mr. S. F. Phillips
ALM/T
April 30, 1975

MATERIAL FOR SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)
INVESTIGATING INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

1. TITLE/SUBJECT: Policies and Procedures of the FBI

2. ORIGINATING ORGANIZATION: FBI

3. NATURE OF MATERIAL: Letterhead memorandum with
enclosures described below

4. DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified except for one
enclosure which is classified "Secret."

5. NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION STAMP: Should have

6. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS:

Following excerpts from the FBI Manual of Instructions:

(a) Table of Contents.
(b) Preface. Guidelines for FBI Investigations.
(c) Section 36. Espionage (classified "Secret").
(d) Section 84. Registration Act.
(e) Section 86. Sabotage.
(f) Section 87. Investigations of Subversive
Organizations and Individuals.
(g) Section 88. Sedition. REC-106
(h) Section 95. Treason.
(i) Section 97. Voorhis Act.
102-1163.co
A 95 dias LAS
(j) Section 122. Extremist Matters and Civil
Unrest. 16 MAY 7 1975

Also, Table of Contents of the FBI Manual of Rules
Ext. Affairs and Regulations.
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
SFP: ekw CR
Laboratory (4)
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Secly
MAIL ROOM
NVW 88608 DocId:32989628 Page 18
TELETYPE UNIT
SEE NOTE PAGE TWO
GPO 951-346
Material furnished includes policy, statutes,
instructions and related matters covering FBI investigations
in the security field generally. Limited, extremely sensitive
material excluded but available for review by appropriately
cleared personnel of the SSC Staff at FBI Headquarters.

NOTE:
7. REQUESTER/DATE OF REQUEST: SSC. 3/19/75

8. RELEASING AUTHORITY: FBI

9. DATE OF SUBMISSION: 4/7/75

10. LOCATION OF FILE COPY: FBI file 62-116395-75

11. RELATION TO INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PROBLEMS:
No direct relation,

Original via liaison to Central Community Index
in connection with Senstudy 75.
NMW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 19
- 2 -
Routing Slip
0-2 Rev. 12-17-73)

TO: SAC: (Copies to ces Checked)
Albany Houston Oklahoma City TO LEGAT:
Albuquerque Indianapolis Omaha Beirut
Alexandria Jackson Philadelphia Bern
Anchorage Jacksonville Phoenix Bonn
Atlanta Kansas City Pittsburgh Brasilia
Baltimore Knoxville Portland Buenos Aires
Birmingham Las Vegas Richmond Caracas
Boston Little Rock Sacramento Hong Kong
Buffalo Los Angeles St. Louis London
Butte