File #:

42-116395

Serial Scope:

601 THRU 1ST NR 605

607, 157 NR 607

609 THRU 616

618 THRU 620

CODE TELETYPE NITEL

TO ALEXANDRIA SEPTEMBER 5, 1.975

BALTIMORE PERSONAL ATTENTION

BIRMINGHAM

BOSTON

CHICAGO 1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

CINCINNATI 1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

DALLAS 1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

EL PASO 1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

INDIANAPOLIS

JACKSON

JACKSONVILLE

LOUISVILLE

LOS ANGELES

MEMPHIS

MIAMI

NEW YORK

OKLAHOMA CITY

OMAHA

FHILADELPHIA

PHOENIX

ST. LOUIS

SAN DIEGO

SAN FRANCISCO

SAVANNAH

SEATTLE

FROM DIFECTOR (62-116395)

SENSTUDY 75

REC-47 6211633628

REBUTELS MAY 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975.

1. SEP 9 1975

SFP:eks ab ST-110 SEE NOTE PAGE 9
(6)

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Train 9-SEP 17 7 1975

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

PAGE 2

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED WHEREABOUTS
OF A NUMBER OF FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES INDICATING THEY MAY BE
INTERVIEWED BY THE SSC STAFF. LISTED BELOW, BY FIELD OFFICE
TERRITORY, ARE THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES AND THEIR LAST KNOWN
ADDRESSES AS CONTAINED IN BUREAU FILES.

INFORMATION FROM SSC INDICATES NAMES OF FORMER SAS
LITKENTO AND STEWART DEVELOPED AS HAVING BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR
SUPERVISING COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE FBI AND CIA CONCERNING
MAIL OPENING ACTIVITIES. ALL OTHERS IN LIST BELOW WERE EITHER
SAC, ASAC, OR BOTH, DURING PERIOD 1959 1966 IN ONE OR MORE
OF THE FOLLOWING OFFICES: BOSTON, DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, MIAMI,
NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SEATTLE, AND WASHINGTON FIELD. THEY
PRESUMABLY ARE ALSO KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING MAIL OPENINGS.

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC
STAFF FOR INTERVIEW. THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING
CONTACTED BY SSC STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION
BY COLLECT CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM INCLUDING
OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS

PAGE 3

FBI EMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF
ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE
AS COOPERATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU
INFORMATION.

CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER EMFLOYEES TO BE HANDLED
PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENT THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE
FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

IMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACT, RESULTS SHOULD BE FUINISHED
BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTION
OF FORMER EM-LOYEES CONTACTED, IF A FORMER EMPLOYLE NO
LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD TO
OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBIHQ.

ALEXANDRIA:

W. DONALD STEWART, CRYSTAL HOUSE I, APARTMENT 202,
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA

JAMES H. CALE, 3307 FOCKY MOUNT ROAD, FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA

THOMAS E. BISHOP, 8820 STARK KOAD, ANNANDALE, VIRGINIA

PAGE 4

BALTIMORE:

ANTHONY P. LITRENTO, 2810 STONYBROOK DRIVE, BOWIE, MARYLAND

PAUL O'CONNELL, JR., 2417 STRATTON DRIVE, POTOMAC, MARYLAND

DONALD E. RONEY, 131 CAMBRIDGE DRIVE, WINDSOR HILLS,
WILMINGTON, DELAWARE

VICTOR TURYN, 2645 TURF VALLEY ROAD, ELLICOTT CITY,
MARYLAND

DONALD W. MORLEY, BOX 222, NEW MARKET, MARYLAND

BIRMINGHAM:

JOHN DAVID FOPE, JR., 221 REMINGTON ROAD, BIRMINGHAM,
ALABAMA

BOSTON:

LEO L. LAUGHLIN, 9 EVERETT AVENUE, WINCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS

EDWARD J. POWERS, 10 COLONIAL DRIVE, BEDFORD,
NEW HAMPSHIRE

J. F. DESMOND, 185 FRANKLIN STREET, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

PAGE 5

CHICAGO:

MARLIN W. JOHNSON, CANTEEN CORPORATION, THE MERCHANDISE
MART, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

HARVEY G. FOSTER, 1012 SOUTH HAMLIN, PARK RIDGE, ILLINOIS

CINCINNATI:

PAUL FIELDS, 2677 CYCLORAMA DRIVE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

HAKRY J. MORGAN, 5314 ELMCREST LANE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

DALLAS:

PAUL H. STODDARD, 3014 CHATTERTON DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

KENNETH E. COMMONS, 2458 DOUGLAS DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

EL PASO:

KARL W. DISSLY, FOST OFFICE BOX 9762, EL PASO, TEXAS

INDIANAPOLIS:

DILLARD W. HOWELL, 6413 CARDINAL LANE, INDIANAPOLIS,
INDIANA

ALLAN GILLIES, 8228 HOOVER LANE, INDIANAFOLIS, INDIANA

JACKSON:

WILLIAMS W. BURKE, JR., 1847 AZTEC DRIVE, JACKSON,
MISSISSIPPI

PAGE 6

JACKSONVILLE:

DONALD K. BROWN, 826 BROOKMONT AVENUE, EAST JACKSONVILLE,
FLORIDA

WILLIAM M. ALEXANDER, 4857 WATER OAK LANE, JACKSONVILLE,
FLORIDA

LOUISVILLE:

BERNARD C. BLOWN, 2301 NEWMARKET DRIVE, N.E., LOUISVILLE,
KENTUCKY

LOS ANGELES:

WILLIAM G. SIMON, 2075 LOMBARDY ROAD, SAN MARINO,
CALIFORNIA

WESLEY G. GRAPP, 4240 BON HOMME ROAD, WOODLAND HILLS,
CALIFORNIA

ANOLD C. LARSON, 4232 ABBINGTON COURT, WESTLAKE VILLAGE,
CALIFORΝΙΑ

JOSEPH K. PONDER, 3719 CARRIAGE HOUSE COURT, ALEXANDRIA,
VIRGINIA. BUSINESS ADDRESS: 3030 SOUTH RED HILL AVENUE,
SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA

PAGE 7

MEMPHIS:

E. HUGO WINTERKOWD, 1550 NORTH PARKWAY, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

MIAMI:

THOMAS MC ANDREWS, 324 NEAFOLITAN WAY, NAPLES, FLORIDA

FREDERICK F. FOX, 11450 W. BISCAYNE CANAL ROAD, MIAMI,
FLORIDA

NEW YORK:

JOSEPH L. SCHMIT, 656 HUNT LANE, MANHASSET, NEW YORK

HENRY A. FITZGIBBON, 76 EASTON ROAD, BRONXVILLE, NEW YORK

OKLAHOMA CITY:

JAMES T. MORELAND, 108 FERN DRIVE, POTEAU, OKLAHOMA

LEE O. TEAGUE, 2501 N.W. 121ST STREET, OKLAHOMA CITY,
OKLAHOMA

OMAHA:

JOHN F. CALLAGHAN, IOWA LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY,
CAMP DODGE, POST OFFICE BOX 130, JOHNSTON, IOWA

PAGE 8

PHILADELPHIA;

RICHARD J. BAKEK, 219 JEFFREY LANE, NEWTON SQUARE,
PENNSYLVANIA

JOHN F. MALONE, 25 GARFIELD AVENUE, CARBONDALE, PENNSYLVANIA

PHOENIX:

PALMER. M. BAKEN, JR., 3832 EAST YUCCA STREET, FHOENIX,
ARIZONA

ST. LOUIS:

THOMAS J. GEARTY, 6630 CLAYTON ROAD 105, RICHMOND HEIGHTS,
MISSOUKI

WESLEY T. WHALEY, 286 GREEN TRAILS DRIVE, CHESTERFIELD,
MISSOURI

SAN DIEGO:

FRANK L. PRICE, 2705 TOKALON STREET, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

SAN FRANCISCO:

CURTIS O. LYNUM, 644 EAST HILLSDALE BOULEVARD,
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

HAROLD E. WELBORN, 13067 LA VISTA COURT, SARATOGA,
CALIFORNIA

PAGE 9

SAVANNAH:

TROY COLEMAN, 36 CROMWELL ROAD, WILMINGTON PARK,
SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

JOSEPH D. PUKVIS, 721 DANCY AVENUE, SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

SEATTLE:

LELAND V. BOARDMAN, ROUTE 3, BOX 268, SEQUIM, WASHINGTON

RICHARD D. AUERBACH, P. O. BOX 1768, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

JAMES E. MILNES, 4317 - 50TH AVENUE, N.E., SEATTLE,
WASHINGTON

PAUL R. BIBLER, 15134 - 38TH AVENUE, N.E., SEATTLE,
WASHINGTON

NOTE:
Referenced Bureau teletypes furnished field general
background and instructions relating to our cooperation with
the SSC and procedures concerning interviews of current and
former employees. Former employees listed herein derived
from an SSC request dated 8/19/75, to which we have responded
by LHM 9/5/75 being furnished the SSC through the AG. After
dispatch of instant teletype, we will arrange for copies to
be filed in the respective personnel files of the former
employees listed.

PLAINTEXT TELETYPE NITEL

1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Walsh
TO: SẠC, NEW YORK 1 - Mr. Wannall 9/5/75
1 - Mr. Cregar
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI 1 - Mr. Hotis
1 - Mr. Daly

SENSTUDY 75

RE BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL 9/5/75.

THE SENATE SELECT COLMITTEE HAS REQUESTED THAT SPECIAL-
AGENT DOUGLAS NAC DOUCALL BE MADE AVAILABLE IN WASHINGTON,
D. C., FOR INTERVIEW BY THAT COMMITTEE ON 9/9/75 AT 10 Δ.Μ.

THE INTERVIEW WILL INVOLVE SA MAC DOUGALL'S KNOWLEDGE IN THE
PARTICIPATION IN MAIL COVERAGE,

SA NAC DOUCALL SHOULD ARRANGE TO ARRIVE IN WASHINGTON,
D. C., IN THE TO DE BRILFED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE LEGAL
COUNSEL AND INTELLIGENCE DIVISIONS AT 3 P.M. O 9/8/75 IN
ROOM 4509 IN THE JUSTICE DUILDING. REC-47,62/1632-619

NOTE: STIHO SEP 9 1975
James Dick, Senate Select Committee Staff Member, made
the request for the interview of SA MacDougall concerning mail
covers. This interview will be a Staff interview. Reference
phone call to advise the New York Office of this request and
of the fact that SA MacDougall should be available for the
briefing on 9/8/75 by the Legal Counsel and Intelligence
Divisions. This communication will serve as approval for the
waiver of an existing employment agreement signed by SA
MacDougall for purposes of this interview.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y PVD: lad LAD LAD

SEPO 51203

79 SEP 17 1975

Mr. W. R. Wannall 1-. W. R. Wannall
1-Dr. W. O. Cregar
1- Mr. J. G. Deegan
8/12/75
1- Mr. R. L. Chackelford
A. B. Fulton 1-r, A. B. Fulton
1-Mr. D. Ryan
COINTELPROS 1- Mir. D. K. Pettus

This is to identify additional copies of excised material
which is being made available in room 4171 of the JEH building for
review by staff members of the Senate Select Committee (SSC). The
copies have been excised to protect sensitive sources and delete infor-
mation from other agencies where there were sensitivities.

Each serial, prior to being made available for review to
members of the SSC staff in room 4171, is approved by the responsible
Section Chief.

Attached for the file are 23 copies of excised serials
regarding the New Left which were made available for review to the
CSC on 8/7/75, and 336 copies of the Black Extremist which were
made available on 8/8/75 for review. The latter 330, which consists
of four volumes, are being maintained in room 4426, JEH.

ACTION: None. For information.

Enclosures 631165
62-116000 -

0
1-62-116395 (Senstudy))
1-100-449698 (New Left)
1-100-448006 (Black Extremist)

DKP:lfj MDR-16
(11) ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/16/00 BY 3ALIKP

Mr. W. R/Wannall 1-Mr. R. Wannall
1- Mr. V. O. Cregar
1-Mr. J. G. Deegan
1- Mr. R. L. Shackelford
8/5/75
1-Mr. A. B. Fulton
A. B. Fulton 1-Mir. D. Ryan
1-Mr. D. K. Pettus
COINTELPROS

This is to identify additional copies of excised serials
which are being made available in room 4171 of the JEH building for
review by staff members of the Senate Select Committee (SSC).
Copies have been excised to protect sensitive sources and delete
information from other agencies where there were sensitivities.

Lach serial, prior to being made available for review
to members of the FEC stafi, is approved by the appropriate responsible
Section Chief.

Attached for the file are 44 copies of excised serials
as they were made available for review to the SSC on 8/1/75: 36
relate to the Communist Party, USA, Cointelpro, five to the New
Left and three to the Socialist Workers Party Cointelpros; 105
copies regarding the New Left Cointelpro which were also made
available on 8/1/75, and 11 copies of New Left Cointelpro which
were made available for review on 8/4/75.

ACTION: None. For information.
-1167
Enclosures
62-116009 1375

1-62-116395 (Senstudy)
1-100-449698 (New Left)
1-100-3-104 (CPUSA),
1-100-436291 (SWP)

DKP:lfj MDR-16
(12) ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/16/00 BY SPRAUMK

70 SEP 81975

1- Mr. J. B. Adams
1-Mr. J. A. Mintz
1- Mr. W. R. Wannall
1- Mr. W. O. Cregar
The Attorney General August 18, 1975/
1- Mr. A. B. Fulton
Director, FBI 1- Mr. D. Ryan
MPR-14
ALL INFORMATION CONTAI
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
RMATION CONTAINED
DATE 1016/00 BY SPAшко

Reference is made to the August 8, 1975, meeting
in your office, wherein members of your staff and officials of this
Bureau discussed matters relating to the current inquiries of the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities as relates to
our Counterintelligence Programs (Cointelpros) documents and to
the protection of FBI sources utilized in these programs.

At your request there is attached a memorandum
summarizing known results in our Cointelpros directed against the
Communist Party, USA, Socialiot Workers Party, White Hate
Groups, New Left and Black Extremists. These summaries do
not indicate any actions were conducted under these programs
which resulted in physical injury to the targets or that electronic
techniques, surreptitious entries, or mail openings were used in
connection with Cointelpro actions.

Enclosure
62-116009 ENCLOSURE
1- The Deputy Attorney General (Enclosure)

1-62-116395 (Senstudy)
DKP/DR:1fj SEE NOTE PAGE 2
(11)

62-116395
NOT D
170 AUG 20, 1975

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED
DUPLICATE YELLOW
The Attorney General -2-

NOTE:
The Attorney General, on 8/8/75, and the Deputy
Attorney General, met with Associate Director Nicholas P. Callahan,
Assistant Director W. Kaymond Wannall, and Inspector John B. Hotis
to discuss the request of the Senate Select Committee for the identities
of sources utilized to effect Cointelpro activities. The Attorney General
indicated prior to discussing this problem, which relates to the over-
all confidentiality of FBI sources, with Senator Church, Chairman of
the Committee, he desired to be furnished information which would
enable him to insure himself there were no Cointelpro activities of a
scandalous or infamous nature which at a later date could cause em-
barrassment to the Department. The attached memorandum was
prepared during the period 8/8-12/75 by personnel of the Internal
Security Branch of the Intelligence Division. It represents a careful
review of all Cointelpro actions where results were known. It is
pointed out in the majority of authorized Cointelpro actions results
were not recorded. Also, because of the wide variety of Cointelpro
actions, results in many areas are not subject to measurement. For
example, there is no way of determining how many individuals left the
Communist Party as a result of our documented mailings relating to
Soviet anti-semitism,

1- MJ. B. Adams
1- Mr. J. A. Mintz
1- Mr. W. R. Wannall
1- Mr. W. O. Cregar
1- Mr. A. B. Fulton..
SECRET August 18, 1975

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS, UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1916/00 BY S

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS

Classified because sets forth information which,
if disclosed, could compromise sensitive intel-
ligence sources and methods.

In an effort to assess possible damage incurred by
subversive and extremist organizations and individuals as a result of
Counter intelligence Program (Cointelpro) activity, a current review
has been made of the programs relating to the Communist Party, USA,
Socialist Workers Party, White Hate Groups, New Left and Black
Extremists.

The "Study Committee Report on FBI Counterintelligence
Programs," prepared in May, 1974, by the Department-FBI Committee
headed by former Assistant Attorney General Henry E. Petersen, tabu-
lated 3, 208 proposals for counterintelligence action during the period
1956 until all programs were discontinued on April 28, 1971. Of these,
according to the Petersen report, 2,340 were reported approved and im-
plemented and results were reported as known in 516 instances. Our
current review has developed 620 instances where results of varying
degrees are known. Excluding results of actions which appear to have
been appropriate and proper law enforcement procedures, we have
summarized results in 164 instances. In any instance where there
was any question regarding the propriety of the action, doubts were
resolved by preparing a summary.

For ready review, summaries of the actions in these 164
instances have been placed in categories and are attached as follows:

1. Anonymously furnishing information. (34 instances)

Pages 3-36.

62-116009
162-116395 (Senstudy)
DKP/DR:lfj
(9)

SECRET ORIGINAL FURNISHED THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL
COPY FURNISHED THE
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
Classified by 4375
Exempt from GDS, Category Number 2
Date of Declassification Indefinite

ENCLOSURE 12 1 1 0 5 9

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs

2. Furnishing information to news media. (39 instances)
Fages 37-75.

3. Use of informants for disruption. (9 instances)
Pages 76-84.

4. Alerting employers, credit bureaus and creditors
to illegal, immoral, radical or subversive activity. (10 instances)
Pages 85-94.

5. Alerting business and individuals with whom indi-
vidual or group has economic dealings to illegal, immoral, radical
or subversive activity. (16 instances) Pages 95-110.

6. Alerting religious and civic leaders and organizations
to immoral, subversive, illegal, or radical activity. (22 instances)
Pages 111-132.

7. Alerting family or associates to illegal, immoral,
radical or subversive activities. (5 instances) Pages 133-137.

8. Alerting educational institutions to immoral, illegal,
radical or subversive activity. (17 instances) Pages 138-154.

9. Miscellaneous. (12 instances) Pages 155-166.

Extreme care should be exercised in connection with
any use of the attached material. Public disclosure of some of this
material could result in physical jeopardy to present and former F31
sources utilized in these programs.

SLCELI -2-

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs

In July, 1964, an anonymous letter was sent to
a number of individuals in the Superior, Wisconsin, area
who advertised in "Tyomies-Eteenpain," a Finnish language
newspaper published in Wisconsin noting the similarity
of editorials in "The Worker," published by the Communist
Party, USA, to alert these advertisers to the communist
nature of this newspaper so they might withdraw their
support.
:
There was no known withdrawal of support for
this newspaper, but at the same time, the newspaper was
applying for membership in the Superior, Wisconsin,
Chamber of Commerce and their application was denied.

JPM:tdp (9)
100-3-104-30-77, 82, 84 SECRET
3

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs

In December, 1969, an anonymous letter was directed
to selected members of the United Klans of America, Inc. (UKA),
by the Richmond Office. This letter denounced Robert H.
Hudgins, Grand Dragon of Virginia, characterizing him as one
interested in personal gain only. The content of the letter
suggested that it had been prepared by Raymond Adams, a
former UKA member, who had been banished and had been at
odds with Hudgins.

The anonymous mailing resulted in continuing
disruption and mistrust in certain Klan units. Hudgins'
leadership was challenged. The unrest at Danville, Virginia,
caused a great reduction in income for the UKA in Virginia,
and affected Hudgins' salary and expenses. Information
available does not indicate whether money for Hudgins' salary
and expenses obtained from UKA or his employer.

TCD:bmf
(9)

157-9-41-113, 115, 116, 118

SECRET 4
C

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs

FBI Headquarters, in October, 1962, authorized
the preparation of an anonymous mineographed leaflet
criticizing individuals and small groups with communist
backgrounds who consistently attacked the United States
but never took a stand against the Soviet Union. This
was to be done in connection with the scheduled October 31,
1962, appearance of Herbert Eugene Aptheker, a member of
the National Committee, Communist Party, USA, at the
State University of New York at Buffalo (UB), as a part
of a lecture series entitled "A Political Spectrum of a
Contemporary World." Such individuals had been openly
critical of an earlier appearance by a British fascist,

Authority was also granted to anonymously mail
public source information on Aptheker to Dr. Charles
Ebert, UB, a faculty member critical of the far left.

The leaflets were anonymously distributed to
the local news media, the student newspaper and to 28
campus organizations and/or students.

Aptheker's scheduled speech was deferred by
a last minute injunction in New York State Court. It
is not known if the leaflets or letter had any bearing
on the injunction. An appellate court later ruled the
University had the right to invite Aptheker to speak.

RWH:tdp (9)
100-3-104-6-36,42 44,78

SECRET 5

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs:

In August, 1963, the FBI in Seattle, Washington,
became avare that a factional problem existed in the
Communist Party (CP) Northwest District as a result of
the Sino-Soviet split in which the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA),
supported the Soviet Union.

A Red Chinese letter stating their position in
the ideological dispute was condensed; criticisms of the
CPUSA pro-Soviet position were added, and an anonymous letter
prepared and mailed to 25 selected CP members in the Northwest
District..

The Seattle FBI Office later reported that some
members of the Seattle area CP registered their disapproval
with the National CP pro-Soviet position and that this
contributed to some disharmony in CPUSA circles. The
letter was discussed at CP state and local club levels
in Seattle.

RPF:dsh
(9)
100-3-104-50-89, 92, 96

SECRET 6

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs

:

During May, 1967, a leaflet was mailed to about
40 individuals in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, area. Recipients
were labor union leaders, churchmen, members of the American
Society of Friends, and the American Legion Posts in vicinity
of the residence of Arthur Edelman. Some of the recipients
were associated with Edelman in promoting demonstrations
against the war in Vietnam and the leaflet was designed
to present the membership and leadership role of Edelman
and his wife, Beth, in the Western Pennsylvania Communist
Party (CP).

Arthur Edelman, after being made aware of leaflet,
announced it was time to come out in the open. An informant
advised that Arthur Tuden, a college instructor in Pittsburgh,
who was active in the antiwar movement, commented he was.
considering being more circumspect in his dealings with
Edelman. Subsequent to circulation of leaflet, Edelman
claimed the organization Trade Unionists For Peace in
Pittsburgh was on verge of collapse because of friction
among its leaders.

HPB:dsh
(9)
100-3-104-39-148, 150, 154 SECRET
7

Counterintelligence Programs SECRET

During mid-1966, the New Orleans Office mailed a series of
letters to Assistant Grand Dragon Bill Windham, Louisiana United Klans
of America, Inc., in the name of a fictitious organization, The National
Committee for Domestic Tranquility (NCDT), an anti-Klan group. The
letters, which indicated that Windham was cooperating with NCDT, were
addressed in a manner that they would be intercepted by a Klan member
and furnished to another Klan leader.

Resulted in a split in Klan leadership and ultimately in
Windham's resignation from the Klan.

RLL: vb
(9)

157-9-33-46, 48, 49, 54, 56, 57, 59, 60

SECRET
Counterintelligence Programs SECRET

The Philadelphia FBI Office was authorized to mail an
anonymous letter to Robert Shelton, Imperial Wizard, United Klans
of America (UKA), Tuscaloosa, Alabama, from a "member of the
Minutemen" in Pennsylvania, urging that Shelton drop Roy Frankhouser
from Ku Klux Klan leadership in Pennsylvania. This letter would also
suggest that Pennsylvania authorities, although not true, were consider-
ing Frankhouser as a murder suspect at that time.

During March, 1967, Robert Shelton mentioned he had
dropped Frankhouser from membership in the UKA and that he had
written acknowledgment from Frankhouser of this fact.

ELS:dsh/lfj
(9)

157-9-37-35, 37, 38

SECRET 9

Counterintelligence Programs SECRET

The Philadelphia FBI Office during June, 1964,
mailed an anonymous letter, ostensibly prepared by a disgruntled
Communist Party (CP) youth in Philadelphia, to Gus Hall, General
Secretary, CPUSA, complaining about the domineering and over-
bearing attitude toward the CP youth on the part of Frances Gabow,
Organizational Secretary of the CP of Eastern Pennsylvania and
Delaware. The letter indicated Gabow had also lost the respect of
adult members because of her relationship with a married man.

Gabow lost her position as CP Organizational Secretary.

ELS:bmf/lfj
(9)
100-3-104-37-124

SECRET 10

SECRET

Counter intelligence Programs

During August, 1968, the Los Angeles Office mailed
an anonymous letter to selected faculty associates of
Robert A. Nieman, an Assistant Professor at California
State College and a candidate for the Peace and Freedom
Party for the California Assembly. The letter ridiculed.
Nieman, pointing out that he was white, did not truly
represent the blacks, that he had been arrested for
possession of marijuana, and of his background with the
Students for a Democratic Society (SDB). Nieman was
very active in SDS and supported $DS in anti-Vietnam
War demonstrations. His arrest record, under FBI
Identification Number 274-688-G, reveals that he was
arrested by the Los Angeles, California, Police
Department, on 9/29/67 for violation of the Health and
Safety Code (Possession of Marijuana).

Nieman lost the election, which he said be
expected, but also stated that the letter had caused him
much embarrassment, both at the school, where an effort
was being made to remove him, and among black militants,
who in some cases were being taught by him.

RLL:vb/lm
(9)
100-449698-26-7, 13, 18

SECRET 11

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs

A leaflet entitled "Call...to Progressive-Minded
America Announcing the Holding of of a Conference Preliminary
to the Founding Convention of a New, American Labor-Negro
Vanguard Party" in November, 1961, was sent anonymously by
the Newark Office to Communist Party (CP) officials throughout
the country. The aim was to hinder the formation of the
American Labor-Negro Vanguard Party (ALNVP) which was a
project of the Harriet-Tubman Section which had already
been expelled from the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA). It
was also to make the Harriet-Tubman Section appear as a
provocative agent of the FBI trying to raid the CPUSA of
its membership and financial support.

The mailing created considerable confusion in the
CPUSA, which found it necessary to warn its members through
its newspaper, of the formation of the ALNVP and to warn
against being taken in by this group.

JPM:dsh
(9)
100-3-104-31-3, 15

SECRET 12

SECRET

Counterintelligence Program

During June, 1970, the Charlotte Office prepared
about 100 copies of a leaflet, in the form of a news item,
prepared by a reporter for Southern Vanguard Revolutionary
Party, (a defunct extremist organization formed by purged
Panther Jose Gonzalvez). The leaflet, sent to news services
and to a number of residents in the vicinity of Black
Panther Party (BPP) headquarters, Winston-Salem,
North Carolina, was intended to publicize the split in the
BPP group at Winston-Salem and to highlight that outside
leadership has been brought to the HPP Winston-Salem.
Leaflet mentioned Douglas Miranda, former BPP leader in
New Haven, Connecticut, had been transferred to Winston-
Salem and also attacked Larry Little, a BPP leader in
Winston-Salem, as radical and insinuated he is pocketing
donations obtained for BPP Breakfast for Children Program.
The leaflet contained truthful information..

After distribution of this leaflet, sales of the
BPP newspaper in Winston-Salem dropped considerably and
respect for BPP leaders in Winston-Salem was reported to
have been lost by members.

EFG:bmf/lm
(9)
100-448006-1829, 2088, 2094

SECRET 13

Counterintelligence Programs SECRE

Douglas Paul Miranda was a successful leader and
organizer of the Black Panther Party (BPP) during 1969 and
1970 in New Haven, Connecticut. An anonymous letter was
sent to BPP Headquarters in San Francisco in March, 1970,
using BPP slang alleging that Miranda had embezzled BPP
funds and questioned whether his promiscuity was in the best
interest of the BPP. There was no specific information
known to the FBI that Miranda was, in fact, embezzling BPP
funds, but allegations had been received that he was having
sexual relations with numerous females in the Now Haven
area.

Miranda fell into disfavor with the BPP leadership
and disciplinary action was taken with the approval of the
national office. He was transferred to Winston-Salem,
North Carolina.

HPB:bmf
(9)

105-165706-32-1150
100-448006-1722

SECRET 14

SECRET

Counterintelligence Programs

On