JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/5/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90073-10039
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-7599-21

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 11/21/1967
PAGES: 27
SUBJECTS: DAVE YARAS
DAVID YARAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA, IRS
COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 1
1
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

FD-263 (Rev. 3-8-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
MIAMI MIAMI 7/20 - 11/20/67
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
DAVID YARAS, aka RALPH R. HILL, JR. jgj
APPROPRIATE AGENCIES CHARACTER OF CASE SEE REVERSE
SIDE FOR
AND FIELD OFFICES AR
CLASSIFICATION
ADVISED BY YOUTHIG 6-23-98
ACTION
SLIP(S) OF Classified
CLASSIFIED BY 5648 SHD/KSR
DATE 11/21/67
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1
(JFK)

REFERENCE: Report of SA RALPH R. HILL, JR., 7/21/67, at Miami.

LEADS CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO - P-
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT
BRACKETS
CHICAGO KP 5-28-98
AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

*1. Identify subscribers to telephone numbers set
forth in this report (except those identified as noted), and
thereafter conduct appropriate investigation to ascertain
association with YARAS.

CONVIC AUTO.
APPROVED
COPIES MADE:
3
2
2
FINES
ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED NONE
FUG.
SAVINGS
RECOVERIES
ACQUIT
TALS
ALL INFORMATION CONTA
NERED IS UNCLASSIFIED
TOENAWISE
- Bureau (92-7599)
1- USA, Miami
”
SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE
(ATTN: Departmental Attorney
WILLIAM EARLE)
- Chicago (92-1684)
(1 USA, Chicago).....
Los Angeles (92-1303)
Miami (92-1047)

Classified by 9145
Declassifi
CASE HAS BEEN:
on:
2
PENDING OVER ONE YEAR
PENDING PROSECUTION
OVER SIX MONTHS
YES NO
YES NO
DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
128 9947599-21 REG
8
NOV 28 1967
ICC 3D SECRET
Dissemination Record of Attached Report
Agency
n
Request Recd.
Date Fwd.
How Fwd.
By
JACC. AAG, Civainal Division,
Organized Criate
Feering
DD
1537
Notations
DEC
SECRET & Martindals STAT Spon
BBINN12/6/6 SECRET TH

NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 2

NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 3
RECEIVED
DIVISION
BENCHAL INVESTIGADOEL INVESTIGATIVE
RECEIVED
DIVISION
FBI
90073-10039
Cho 12-11
S DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
SENERAL INVESTIGATIVE
DEC 8 5 04 DEC '97 9 55 AM '67
DIVISION DEC 1119 AM 167
DEC 11 2 41 PM '67
F. B. 1.
F. B. i.
DEPT OF JUSSJDEPT. OF JUSTICE
F. B. I.
RECEIVED
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
DIVISION
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Sourcel-CIA
d
12-12
REC'D-CIV RIGHTS
FBI
200/597DEC 14 249 PM 167
FOI/PA #
APPEAL #
CIVIL ACT.#
E.O. # 2556
DATE 1000INITIALS
RECEIVED
GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE
NOISIAIO
DEC 8 1 25 PM 167
F. B. I.
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
DOM INTELL. DIV.
REC'D
DEC 12 12 17 PM '67
FBI - JUSTICE
RECIO SULLIVAN
DEC 12 138 PM 167
1.

NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 4
2
MM 92-1047
SECRET

*2. Obtain Bureau authority for toll records of
Chicago number BU 1-8513 (joint residence of LEONARD and
DAVE YARAS). SECRET

*3. Conduct investigation requested by Miami
letter to Chicago dated May 4, 1967.

*4. Ascertain through IRS, Chicago, the extent
of their investigation into the activities of YARAS and
LEONARD PATRICK and determine if indictments are forth-
coming relating to the investigation of possible extortion
on the part of YARAS and PATRICK against HERMAN SALES, Inc.
of Chicago.

*5. Attempt to establish coverage of YARAS's
activities while in Chicago.

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
(

Refer to Los Angeles letter to Miami dated
August 24, 1967, setting forth information relating to
DELORES GOODMAN, et al, who reside at 1010 North Spaulding,
Los Angeles. Los Angeles will afford interviews with JANET
ANET
GOODMAN and others at Apartment 5 of that address to de-
termine the extent of their knowledge of the activities of
YARAS. Miami is interested primarily in determining if
YARAS maintains a Los Angeles address in addition to those
in Miami and Chicago.

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will continue to follow and report on the activi-
ties of YARAS.
REVIEWED BY EBUJER TASK FORCE
SECRET ON 79.98 dat
- B -
RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET

NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 5
MM 92-1047 SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE SECXET

The extensive investigative period of this report
is noted; however, Miami has been awaiting results of in-
vestigation being conducted in Chicago.

FLA
The following information relates to recent
bombing activity in the Miami area perpetrated by Miami
hoodlums, the principal suspect being FRANK "LEFTY"
ROSENTHAL, alleged Lieutenant of YARAS. It is noted in
this regard that Miami informants have reported that these
bombings are part of an approved plan of the Chicago family,
LCN, to organize certain bookmakers in the Miami area.

Information below relates to contacts with LUIS
POSADA CARRILES in regard to his knowledge of the activi-
ties of captioned individual. At the time of original
contact with CARRILES, he was an employee of CIA. During
the latter stages of his contacts with SA WELSH his em-
ployment with CIA had been terminated. (4)

BOMBINGS - MIAMI AREA
JANUARY JUNE, 1967

A CONTACTS WITH LUIS POSADA CARRILES,
CIA INFORMANT

1. On July 24, 1965, CIA provided in memo form
information received from a reliable source. This source
was later identified as LUIS POSADA CARRILES
CARRILES (84) (4
S
(5)
POSADA advised that DIEGO BORGES was acting as
an agent for three Americans who were seeking to buy
pistols, explosives, blasting caps, hand grenades and
silencers. The identity of the Americans was not known
to POSADA although he believed they were members of the
Ku Klux Klan or possibly the Jom Birch Society.

SECRET--
L

NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 6
SECVET

1
MM 92-1047 SECRET

POSADA provided the following background in-
formation concerning individuals involved with BORGES
in the procurement of arms and munitions by the three
Americams: (S)(4)
:

HERMINIO DIAZ, 732_N.W. 3rd Street, Miami,
Florida, sold sixty hand grenades (USMK II) to BORGES
for delivery to Americans. DIAZ received from BORGES
three hundred sixty dollars for grenades but delivered
only forty. Subsequently, BORGES asked source to go to
DIAZ and either pick up other twenty grenades or the one
hundred twenty dollars in cash which they represented,
MIAMI, FL
RAMON ESCARDA, 620 S.W. 9th Street, who served
in the U. S. Army, 1958-1959, was supposed to obtain one
hundred pounds of pentolite for delivery to BORGES for
$320-350(8)(1) SECRET

FLA.
FRANK TAMAYO, 3213 S.W. 8th Street, Miami, active
in anti-CASTRO/activities, sold 622 caliber silencers to
Americans for $1,000
..
,000 (54) (3) (4)

Source gave descriptions of the three Americans
and also recorded license plate ce of car utilized by group
group(5.1)

FLA.
On October 23, 1965, POSADA interviewed by Bureau
Agents. FOSADA readily admitted he had been in contact
with three Americans who were seeking to purchase hand
grenades, weapons, silencers and explosives. He/had been
placed in contact with these Americans by DIEGO BORGES. He
confirmed DIAZ, ESCARDA and TAMAYO were also involved in
this transaction. POSADA said shortly after he established
contact with Americans, his CIA contact gave him several
photos in attempt to identify Americans. POSADA said he
identified one of the photos as that of FRANK ROSENTHAL.
Immediately after he identified this photo, CIA instructed
him to break off all contact with these three Americans
and to have nothing further to do with them,
(4)
(4)

SECRET

NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 7
D
SECRET

MM 92-1047 SECRET
)

POSADA said that six silencers which had been
manufactured at the home of TAMAYO had been given by
BORGES to ROSENTHAL. He said ESCARDA was looking for
pentolite but did not know whether material delivered
to ROSENTHAL (S4) (4) SECRET

On November 5, 1965, Bureau Agents exhibited
photo of NORMAN ROTHMAN, FBI #152 585B, to POSADA.
POSADA identified ROTHMAN as one of Americans with
ROSENTHAL. He was of the impression that ROTHMAN was
personally known to BORGES and had introduced ROSENTHAL
to BORGES. It is noted ROTHMAN was arrested April 9,
1959, and was later convicted of violation of the National
Stolen Property Act. He was sentenced to five years in
prison and ten thousand dollar fine.( fine.(4)

2. By similar communication, dated June 15,
1967, CIA advised the Miami Division that POSADA had been
contacted by FRANK ROSENTHAL during the month of October,
1966. (1) (4)

ROSENTHAL told POSADA that all silencers he had
purchased from POSADA were pieces of junk and he felt
POSADA and BORGES were responsible for this and maybe his
friends would kill POSADA and BORGES.(54) ($)(U)

ROSENTHAL stated although he was out $5,000 from
his previous purchases, he did not want money from POSADA.
ROSENTHAL said he knew POSADA was working for CIA and he
wanted some CIA equipment. POSADA allegedly refused to do
this but POSADA made a number of fuse devices which he gave
to ROSENTHAL.
(14)

This same memo reflects ROSENTHAL contacted
POSADA in early June, 1967. ROSENTHAL stated the fuse
devices were no good which were previously furnished and
made a request for more CIA fuse devices and remote con-
trol unit for detonating explosive charges (54)

-E-
SECRET
DECRET

NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 8
MM 92-1047 SECRET

On June 12, 1967, POSADA stated ROSENTHAL con-
tacted him on June 11, 1967. ROSENTHAL asked for requested
equipment and told source he would get him if he did not
deliver. POSADA refused to do anything more for ROSENTHAL,
3. On June 22, 1967, SAS JAMES J. O'CONNOR and
WARREN R. WELSH met with LUIS POSADA at Dinner Key, Coco-
nut Grove, Florida. (4)
Florida.(u) SEXRET
(

POSADA, at this time, reiterated his past deal-
ings with FRANK ROSENTHAL from the time of the Spring of
1965, through June 12, 1967. POSADA made one additional
remark concerning his involvement with ROSENTHAL during
1965. He stated that he did not directly furnish ROSENTHAL
any of the explosives, et al, which he requested although
he was introduced to ROSENTHAL as an expert in the field
of explosives. For his expertise knowledge he was given
$500 by ROSENTHAL sometime during the month of May, 1965.
POSADA indicated that he gave this money to CIA, who in
turn at a later date gave this money back to him.
:
4)

4. On June 23, 1967, SA JAMES J. O'CONNOR was
telephonically contacted by POSADA. POSADA related that
on June 22, 1967, he met with FRANK ROSENTHAL. Subject
requested 250 pounds of C-4 explosives, a large quantity
of pencil type devices and a remote control explosive
apparatus. ROSENTHAL stated to source that money was no
problem and he would pay twenty-five times the original
cost if this was necessary☑☑☑
पा

ROSENTHAL further related to POSADA that there
would be at least twenty more bombings and additional
corpses would be appearing in the Miami area. Subject
stated that he would be out of town for several weeks
although he requested a meeting with source on June 29,
June 30, or July 1, 1967.8) (4)
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 9
F
SECRET --
SEGRET

MM 92-1047 SECRET

5. On June 24, 1967, SA WARREN R. WELSH met
with LUIS POSADA at the Dinner Key area, Coconut Grove,
Florida. (SA) (4) SECRET

On this date, POSADA was shown a photograph
taken by the Dade County Public Safety Department, Miami,
Florida, of an explosive device found at the apartment
✓ residence of MICKEYYZION, 7501 East Treasure_Drive, _ North
Bay Village, Miami, Florida. This device was intended to
go off in the bedroom area of ZION's apartment on May 30,
1967. POSADA identified the explosive material as pento-
lite. He stated that he had provided ROSENTHAL with
pencil type devices similar although not identical to the
devices appearing in the photograph
(4)

6. On June 26, 1967, SA WARREN R. WELSH, met
with source at Dinner Key, Coconut Grove, Florida. 4)

POSADA advised that the cost of C-4 to ROSENTHAL
would be $5-$7 a pound. The ingredients of C-4 are 92%
RDX and 8% gelatin. The material is packaged in plastic
type containers weighing approximately 2½ pounds each.
He stated that the cost of the pencil type devices would
vary between $10 and $15 per pencil. (4)
FLA

Source related that on June 24, 1967, he was
contacted by DOMINGO CHEMENDIA, son of now deceased
Cuban gambling figure OSCAR ECHEMENDIA. ECHEMENDIA wanted
source to meet with him concerning the obtainment of ex-|
plosives for an unknown group of individuals. (ST) ($) (4)

On June 25, 1967, source and ECHEMENDIA went to
a location somewhere between S.W. 78th Court and 29th
Terrace or 30th Street, in the southwest section of Miami.
(This address is that of OLGA CHAVIANO, a Cuban dancer
who is the girlfriend of NORMAN ROTHMAN. ROTHMAN is the
subject of AR investigation by the Miami Division.)
G-
SECRET
SECRET
(4)
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 10
MM 92-1047 SECRET

POSADA stated that he met with an unknown in-
dividual who was introduced to him as a Chilean. This SECRET
individual spoke excellent Spanish and good English.
Unknown individual was interested in obtaining pentolite
pencil type devices, a .308 caliber silencer and any other
delay type material which source could locate. At this
meet source said that he could see NORMAN ROTHMAN several
hundred yards away from the place of his meet with the
Chilean. (34) 4)

After the meet source stated that ECHEMENDIA
told him that the Chilean he had just talked with was the
man responsible for the recent bombings at MICKEY ZION'S
apartment, Rand's Cleaners and Alfie's Sundries. ECHEMEN-
DIA said that this individual is working for NORMAN
ROTHMAN, who is now a big man in Miami and a representative
of the Mafia.(($)(4)

7. On June 27, 1967, SA WARREN R. WELSH met
with LUIS POSADA in the Dinner Key area, Coconut Grove,
Florida. (S4)
(4) (4)
PRY A POSA
FLA

POSADA identified a photograph of ALBERTO
LARRAIN/MAESTRE as the Chilean whom he had met with on
June 25, 1967, (It is noted that MAESTRE is a Federal
Bureau of Narcotics fugitive who is also a close associate
of NORMAN ROTHMAN.) (S4) (X) (4)

8. On June 28, 1967, LUIS POSADA was contacted
telephonically by SA WELSH, who was in Washington, D.C.(4)
D.C.CS4) (4)

Source advised that on June 28, 1967, ROSENTHAL
had called his house, at which time his wife told ROSENTHAL
that source would be out of town for several days. (84) ($)(u)

9. On June 28, 1967, LUIS POSADA telephonically
contacted SA JAMES J. O'CONNOR. (4)
me
H
SECRET SECRET
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 11
MM 92-1047. SECRET

SECRET
Source indicated that during the morning of this
date he met with DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA. At this meet he
promised to furnish ECHEMENDIA with the various materials
requested by ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE. Source quoted
ECHEMENDIA a price of $10 a pound for C-4 and $150 per
silencer without the pistol (4)

Source further advised that ECHEMENDIA told
him that he was to meet at midnight, June 29, 1967, with
NORMAN ROTHMAN at the Albion Hotel Lounge, Miami Beach,
Florida. The purpose of this meet, according to source,
was to obtain an okay on the price of materials which
were to be provided to the Chilean SD (4)

10. On July 5, 1967, SA WELSH met with LUIS
POSADA in the Dinner Key area, Coconut Grove, Florida 41

Source stated that he was trying to analyze in
his own mind the various meetings he has had with FRANK
ROSENTHAL, NORMAN ROTHMAN, DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA and ALBERTO
LARRAIN-MAESTRE. From all indications it appears that
ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE is performing the bombings for
FRANK ROSENTHAL (S1) ($) 4)
NO LOCALITY

He reflected that the original contact between
ECHEMENDIA, ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE and himself came about
through a mutual friend by the name of LUCIO CABRERA. He
described the latter individual as a former/gunsmith in
the 20506 Brigade. CABRERA was first contacted by DOMINGO
ECHEMENDIA to obtain various explosives for a Chilean who
was a close associate of NORMAN ROTHMAN. He stated that
CABRERA contacted him as a potential source of these ex-
plosive devices since he had only had one previous contact
with DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA. (Su)

Source stated that he had obtained a remote
control explosive device for ROSENTHAL although he could
not at this time obtain all the C-4 or pencil type devices
:
(u)
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 12
SECRET
ca
I-
SECRET

MM 92-1047 SECRET

requested by ROSENTHAL. He indicated that in order to
obtain all the C-4 requested by ROSENTHAL he would have to
contact LUIS MARTI, who resides in the State of New Jersey.
He stated that MARTI is the source for Cubans who desire
explosivest
(9)(4) SECRET

11. On July 7, 1967, SA WELSH met with LUIS
FOSADA in Dinner area, coco(4)

He related that during the evening of July 6,
1967, ROSENTHAL met him at their usual meeting place,
behind Roger's Food Market, located on the corner of
S.W. 27th Avenue and 25th Streett.

ROSENTHAL, in a very amiable mood, reflected
that he would be leaving town either next Tuesday or
Wednesday, and would need his explosive materials by
that time. He further requested two grease guns with
silencers and two M-2 carbines. ROSENTHAL said that he
would make contact with source sometime during July 10,
1967, for the time of delivery.
()()(u)

Source stated that the cost of the grease guns
would be $175 per gun and the price of the carbines would
be $120 per unit. He also indicated that during the above
described meeting there was an unknown individual sitting
in ROSENTHAL'S s car.
($($) (4)

Source also related that he had had a two hour
talk with DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA on July 6, 1967. ECHEMENDIA
told him that the Chicago mob was contemplating the take-
over of the gambling business in the Miami area. DOMINGO
ECHEMENDIA stated that a representative of this group came
to his house several nights ago and discussed the gambling
situation. ECHEMENDIA stated that he was to receive an in-
fluential position with this group for the purpose of con-
trolling the Cuban bolita operators.
لب
(S) (8) (4)
SECRET SECRET
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 13
MM 92-1047 SECRET

SECRET
ECHEMENDIA further stated that on the evening
of his meet with NORMAN ROTHMAN at the Albion Hotel Lounge,
Miami Beach, Florida, ROTHMAN had previously been in contact
with MEYER LANSKY.
(3x4)($(4)
U.S.A

ECHEMENDIA also commented on a Cuban bolita
✓ operator by the name of EVARISTO CARCIA VIDAL. ECHEMENDIA
stated that VIDAL was on the outs with the mob in view of
his failure to pay the proper percentage of his earnings
to the group. Because of this disfavor, the mob is alleg
edly out to kill VIDAL. (1) ((U)

12. On July 10, 1967, SA WELSH telephonically
contacted LUIS POSADA (1)(X)(u)

POSADA stated that he had talked with DOMINGO
ECHEMENDIA regarding the silencers he was to obtain for
the Peruvian individual. ECHEMENDIA indicated that he
was going to give one of the silencers to MARGOSA, a car
salesman in the Miami area, who would test the equipment
for the Peruvian. (SA FRANCIS J. DUFFIN obtained infor-
mation that MARGOSA was formerly Sergeant of Police in
Cuba and a Special Guard at the Tropicana Hotel in
Havana. This hotel was operated by OSCAR ECHEMENDIA,
now deceased.X
((u)

13. SA WELSH contacted LUIS POSADA in person
at the Dinner Key area, Coconut Grove, Florida, on July 11,
1967 1967)()() ($) (4)

In conversation with DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA he as-
certained that MARCOSA was well pleased with the silencers
which he was testing for the Peruvian. POSADA stated that
he was going to charge the Peruvian $150 per silencer, $15
per pencil and $10 a pound for C-4 explosive() (u)
tenure of conversation he should
POSADA was instructed at this time regarding the ul
d have with ROSENTHAI, at
D
K-
SECRET
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 14
SECRET

MM 92-1047 SECRET

their next contact. He was requested to make up a story
concerning a dummy customs raid at his residence and the
fact that because of this raid he could not produce, the
requested explosive devices for ROSENTHAL SEORET
(4)

During the late evening hours of July 11, 1967,
POSADA telephonically contacted SA WELSH and advised him
that he had just been contacted by his CIA supervisor.
He informed him that he was no longer in the employment
of CIA due to an order emanating in Washington, D.C. He
was told that this action by CIA headquarters in Wash-
ington had nothing to do with either his previous work
record with CIA or his present, contact with the FBI
Office in Miami.
(S4) ($) (4)

POSADA further stated at this time that ROSENTHAL
had contacted his home at approximately 10:45 P.M. at which
time his wife explained that her husband had been in trouble
and that he would contact ROSENTHAL tomorrow. tomorrow (S4)

14. SA WELSH contacted LUIS POSADA via tele-
phone on July 12, 1967(
(S(X)(u)

POSADA stated that at approximately 10:30 A.M.
on this date he contacted ROSENTHAL at his residence.
ROSENTHAL would not talk on his home phone and requested
POSADA to contact him at a pre-arranged number and time 1

After making this telephonic contact, POSADA
indicated that ROSENTHAL was extremely aggravated over
the stalling tactics of POSADA. He gave POSADA an ulti-
matum to either produce the material in ten days or for-
get about everything (81)($(4)

POSADA also related that on this date, DOMINGO
ECHEMENDIA had contacted him and he informed ECHEMENDIA
that the customs had raided his house the previous day,
ECHEMENDIA stated that this raid meant nothing and he
ت
L
SECRET
((1)
)
SECRET
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 15
MM 92-1047 SECRETT

should not be worried about it. ECHEMENDIA stated that
ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE was not presently in the Miami.
area.(ST)()() SECRET

15. On July 13, 1967, SA WELSH contacted AUSTIN
HORN, CIA, Miami. (ST)
()()()

HORN stated that LUIS POSADA CARRILES was no
longer an employee of CIA. He stated that the decision
to release POSADA came from their Washington headquarters
in view of the fact that POSADA had without authorization
withdrawn himself from an anti-CASTRO group called Real()

HORN commented that POSADA was instructed to
continue his cooperation with the FBI Office in Miami
and that he would be paid through September, 1967, as
long as he cooperated with this other Federal agency.
(মন) (স) (দ)

16. On July 14, 1967, SA WELSH met with LUIS
POSADA at Dinner Key, Coconut Grove, Floridad
(ST)()(1)

POSADA stated that he had conferred on this
date with DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA and ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE
was not in town. ECHEMENDIA told POSADA that he was not
going to place a specific order of explosives with POSADA
until he found out exactly what MAESTRE and the Peruvian
wanted, insofar as volume of explosive material.
(4)

POSADA said that he had heard nothing more from
ROSENTHAL.
(S1) (3) (4)

He further indicated that inasmuch as he is not
presently employed in the Miami area he was contemplating
a trip to Venezuela in order to secure a permanent type job

17. On July 15, 1967, LUIS POSADA was tele-
phonically contacted by SA WELSH
WELSH CS(4)
M
SECRET
SECRET
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 16
MM 92-1047 SECRET

POSADA advised that DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA advised
that ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE had returned to Miami, on this
date. He stated that ECHEMENDIA and MAESTRE were going to
meet later on this date in the southwest section of Miami.
According to POSADA, after this meeting ECHEMENDIA would
contact him regarding the volume and type of explosives
wanted by MAESTRE.(
(SA) (5) (4) SECRET

18. On July 18, 1967, SA WELSH met in person
with LUIS LUIS POSADA POSADA in the Dinner Key area, Coconut Grove,
Florida. (S)()(u)

POSADA stated that he had just finished talking
to DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA. He ascertained that ALBERTO LARRAIN-
MAESTRE had not participated in the bombing of a Miami
police officer in the southwest section of Miami. MAESTRE
had left with NORMAN ROTHMAN on either Sunday night or
Monday morning for an unknown destination out of Florida (1) (4) (4)

ECHEMENDIA related to POSADA that a policeman
by the name of DOBSON or DAWSON was helping the "mob
boys". ECHEMENDIA also related that he had heard that
ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE and NORMAN ROTHMAN were responsible
for the recent bombing at the Thunderbird Hotel in Las
Vegas, Nevads, (51) 2 (1)

19. On July 24, 1967, LUIS POSADA was tele-
phonically contacted by SA WELSH.
SH. (SA) (8) 4) U

POSADA stated that on July 20, 1967, FRANK
ROSENTHAL, had contacted him at his residence. POSADA
at this time told ROSENTHAL that he was no longer in-
terested in obtaining explosives for him and that he wished
to have no further dealings with him. After hearing this,
ROSENTHAL became very irate and gave back to POSADA a
number of pencils that he had previously secured from him.
N-
SECRET SECRET
hin(u)
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 17
MM 92-1047 SECRET

POSADA stated that he became very upset over the
conduct of ROSENTHAL and requested him to leave his resi-
dence in three seconds or he would shoot him in the head.
After this threat by POSADA, ROSENTHAL told him "that
someday when he was playing gin rummy POSADA would be
killed".
(1) (4) SECRET

20. On August 1, 1967, LUIS POSADA was con
tacted telephonically by SA WELSH.
(u)

POSADA stated that on this date he had been in
contact with DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA. ECHEMENDIA stated that
NORMAN ROTHMAN had gone to the Hollywood, California area
and ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE had departed for Peru. Source
could not learn the duration of either of these two visits visits (1) (4)

He stated that he was no longer going to contact
DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA and told this individual that he could
no longer supply him with explosive material(x)

21. On August 4, 1967, LUIS POSADA was contacted
in person by SA WELSH at the corner of U. S. 1 and Bird
Road.(5)(4)

POSADA stated that several days after his last
confrontation with ROSENTHAL he received a letter in the
mail from an unknown individual. He stated that the con-
tents of this letter consisted of eight pennies which were
held together by Scotch tape and a 350 caliber bullet.
POSADA did not know the significance of either of the
items although he surmised that ROSENTHAL had sent these
things to him (S-1)($) (4)
•

POSADA stated that he had heard nothing during
the past week from FRANK ROSENTHAL and has told DOMINTO
ECHEMENDIA not to contact hims
(u)
SECRET
SECRET
NW 88608 Docld:32328335 Page 18
MM 92-1