Date : 04/30/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10203-10292
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2713-515

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, NO
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 12/16/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : CM, ASSOC, TRA, ATTORNEY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS:

NW 78318
Docld:34489341 Page 1

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

FBI

Date: 12-16-68

Transmit the following in
PLAINTEXT

Via TELETYPE
URGENT

TO: HOUSTON AND DIRECTOR (AIRMAIL)
FROM: NEW ORLEANS (92-36)

CARLOS MARCELLO; AR
1 7 3 4
NO ONE SEVEN THREE FOUR DASH PC, THIS DATE ADVISED SUBJECT

BEING DRIVEN BY SAL BOEMIA TO BAY CITY, TEXAS IN SUBJECT'S
BLACK LINCOLN CONTINENTAL, LOUISIANA LICENSE NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT
DASH SIXTYNINE THREE TWO ZERO B EIGHT SEVEN ONE.

SUBJECT TO PICK UP. "PICOU", LAFAYETTE, LOUISIANA ASSOCIATE
OF THE SUBJECT. SUBJECT TRANSPORTING TRANSCRIPT OF HIS TRIAL
AT LAREDO, TEXAS AND TO MEET WITH DOCTOR FRANK RAGANO, ATTORNEY
FOR LON BOSS SANTO TRAFFICANTE OF TAMPA, FLA.

SOURCE ALSO ADVISED GUISEPPE GAGLIANO, FORMER UNDER BOSS
LCN IN NEW ORLEANS TO BE IN ATTENDANCE. PURPOSE OF MEETING
UNKNOWN TO SOURCE AND SUBJECT TO RETURN ON WEDNESDAY TWELVE
EIGHTEEN SIXTYEIGHT.
EX-113 REC 4 92-2713-515
HOUSTON, AT BAY CITY, TEXAS: JAN 2.1968

CONTACT APPROPRIATE SOURCES AND ANY OTHER INVESTIGATION
DEEMED APPROPRIATE TO DETERMINE SUBJECT'S PRESENCE AND LOCATION
OF MEETING IN BAY CITY, TEXAS,

END PAGE ONE...
1 BUREAU 1 TAMPA 1 NEW ORLEANS
Approved: Sent Per
STAN 101969

NW 78318
Docld:34489341 Page 2

NO 92-36
PAGE TWO

IT IS BEING NOTED SUBJECT PREVIOUSLY IN CONTACT WITH MOISE
SIMON, ATTORNEY FOR BROWN AND ROOT BAY CITY, TEXAS RE
NEGOTIATIONS OF THE SALE OF CHURCHILL FARMS INC.

HOUSTON EXERCISE EXTREME CAUTION IN UTILIZATION OF ABOVE
INFO SO AS NOT TO COMPROMISE HIGHTLY SENSATIVE SOURCE ABOVE.

END.

NW 78318
Docld:34489341 Page 3
