124-10163-10134 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10163-10134
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3942

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PLANS
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 12/04/1964
PAGES: 6
SUBJECT: JFK, ASSISTANCE, SUSPECT, RIDDERSTRALE, KARL-ERIK, ALBRECHT,
ADOLPH JAY, ABERG, CHARLOTTE, NAME CHECK
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL NEW
CLASSIFICATION: Secret CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 09/24/1997 UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001
STATUS Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
COMMENTS: INCLUDES SEARCH SLIPS

NW 50953 DocId:32167657 Page 1

SECRET FORMAL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

TOI/PA# 6454
APPEAL #
CIVIL ACT. #
E.O. # 12356 Date
DATE 1-17-89 (IN LITER
Per CIA letter 9/23/88
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM : Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT : Adolph Jay ALBRECHT
Classified by
Declassify on: OADR JPM

1. Adolph Jay ALBRECHT, born 15 June 1926 in New Jersey, is
an industrial advertising copywriter currently residing in
Stockholm, Sweden. The holder of U.S. passport No. D 294080,
issued 18 April 1963 at New York City, Subject served with the
United States Navy from about 1947 to 1955, on active duty for
only two weeks, however. As of November 1963 Subject said, he
was employed by the Andersson and Lembke Advertising Agency
Luntmakargaten 95, Stockholm.

2. On 29 November 1963 Subject, of his own volition,
visited the American Embassy in Stockholm and asked to speak
with the embassy "security officer." He was interviewed by a
representative of this Agency Subject said that a former
girlfriend, Charlotte ABERG (Swedish citizen, born ca. 1943)
told him that Karl-Erik RIDDERSTRALE (Swedish citizen, born
24 September 1922), while drunk on 15 November 1963, predicted
that within two weeks President KENNEDY would be assassinated
while on a trip among his own people Following the assassination
Charlotte was upset and called ALBRECHT on 27 November 1963 to
inform him of RIDDERSTRALE's statement made while he was visiting
Charlotte and her mother on 15 November. Charlotte described
RIDDERSTRALE as normally quiet and refined and one of her
mother's suitors. According to Subject, RIDDERSTRALE, though
wealthy and a member of Swedish nobility, is a left winger and
strong supporter of Fidel CASTRO.

3. Through Subject, arrangements were made for Charlotte
ABERG to be interviewed at the American Embassy on 4 December 1963.
Charlotte related substantially the same story as did Subject,
with minor contradictions. She said RIDDERSTRALE's comments
were made about ten days before the assassination and that he
had not given a two-week deadline; he merely said, "soon."
She said she knew nothing about RIDDERSTRALE's background.
Charlotte was advised to report the foregoing to Swedish
authorities. Following an interview with Swedish police officials,
Charlotte returned to the American Embassy on 9 December 1963.
No Investigation Conducted by FBI or CIA by
Pertinent to your inquiry.
This is the result of a request for an
FBI file check only and is not to be
69 JAN 1965
NW 50953 DocId: 32167657 Page 2
HAian, 2-22-64
SECRET NO FOREIGA

DECLASSIFICATION ANDZOR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT (43/10/97)
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
AS SANITIZED
SECRET

He could not explain such an expression since he could not Secret
remember having said anything like it. He knew nothing
whatever beforehand about the murder of the President."

6. The files of this Agency contain no recorded identi-
fiable traces on ALBRECHT, ABERG, or RIDDERSTRALE.

7. This office would appreciate receiving any pertinent
information your Bureau's files may contain on the Subject, cleared,
where possible, for passing to an official Swedish source An
early reply would be appreciated.

8. The information contained in paragraphs 1 through 3,
above, was given to the Legal Attache in London during early
December 1963.

CSCI-316/02509-64

-3-

SECRET
Secret

NW 50953 DocId: 32167657 Page 3
