124-10279-10107 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/5/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10107

RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-180256-194

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 12/14/1973
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: MR. SERRANO, ORLANDO, TELCAL, USA, CUBAN EMBASSY,
MEXICO CITY, CUBAN SPANISH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1 10
NW 50953 DocId:32301772 Page 1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
Antel to SacNY JWFO HLD/m2 1/2/74
FTB003 4:01AM 12-14-73 JPS DEC 14 1973
ESC 107
RRESV TELETYPE Assoc. Dir.
Asst. Dir.
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval
Spec. Inv
Training
Telephone, Rm
DE ESC #4304 3480730.
ZNY SSSSS
R132224Z DEC 73 SECRET CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO Legal Coun.
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS
KP 7-6-98
FM CIA ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
TO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION DATE 2/23/94 BY SPEMA
BT
SECRET. CITE CIA 491076.
ATTN: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION (5)
SUBJECT: TELEPHONE TAPS ON CALLS INITIATED IN USA. TO CUBAN
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER MEXICO CITY, Mexico
ON 12 AND 15 NOVEMBER 1973 AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IDENTIFIED NR
HIMSELF AS MORLANDO SERRANO MADE TELEPHONE CALLS FROM THE NO
DC
(5)
USA TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY. HE USED DOUBLE-TALK,
Cuba
SPOKE SPANISH WITH CUBAN VICE CONSUL JUANENSENAT CAMPS Mexico
CAN IDENTIFIED CUIS OFFICER), AND REFERRED TO HIS (THE CALLER'S)
Mexico Cuba
RELATIONSHIP WITH MANUEL RODRIGUEZ SEOANE IN 1964 AND
CUIS officer RECO 05-180256-194
TO "MICKEY" WHOM HE HAD CONTACTED PREVIOUSLY, PRESUMABLY IN MEXICO.

RODRIGUEZ IS A CUIS OFFICER AND "MICKEY" IS THE PSEUDONYM OF
ENRIQUE CICARDLABRADA WHO WAS STATIONED IN MEXICO CITY AS
MAKAMickey CULA Mexico
JAN 1974
CONSUL FROM 1968 UNTIL TRANSFERED TO HAVANA 1971. ACCORDING TO
A DGI DEFECTOR IN 1971, CICARD WAS THEN EITHER HEAD OF THE DGI USA
BUREAU OR THE SECTION IN CHARGE OF OPERATIONS AGAINST THE FBI AND

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT 10W-18070
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE ETS DAB
NW 50953 DocId:32301772 Page 2

PAGE 02 RUEAIIA 4304 SECRET SECRET
CIA.
2. THERE ARE NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ON SERRANO IN VIEW
OF THE CALLER'S CITED CUIS CONNECTIONS, WE BELIEVE HE IS VERY
POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH EMILIOECHARTE PEDROSO, SUBJECT OF
FBI NEW YORK REPORT DATED OCTOBER 27, 1970. THAT REPORT REFERRED
TO ECHARTE'S RECRUITMENT IN CUBA BY RODRIGUEZ AND HIS DISPATCH TO
THE USA ON A MISSION TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN EXILE LEADER MANOLO RAY.
SAME REPORT ALSO ADVISED THAT ECHARTE CONTACTED DGI OFFICER CICARD
IN MEXICO 1968 AND CICARD DIRECTED HIM TO CULTIVATE A CIA AGENT IN
USA.
3. THE 12 NOVEMBER CALL WAS MADE FROM AN UNIDENTIFIED LOCATION
IN THE USA. THE 15 NOVEMBER CALL WAS MADE AT 1458 HOURS WASHINGTON,
D.C. TIME FROM A PHONE BOOTH IN WASHINGTON TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY
MEXICO CITY, TELEPHONE NUMBER 5530917 THE 12 AND 15 NOVEMBER CON-
VERSATIONS ARE SIMILAR IN CONTENT OUR MEXICO CITY STATION RECEIVED
A TAPE RECORDING OF THE 15 NOVEMBER TELEPHONE CONVERSATION FROM THE
MEXICAN SERVICE WHICH WE ARE FORWARDING TO FBI HEADQUARTERS FOR
REVIEW. AN EXPERIENCED TRANSCRIBER EMPLOYED BY CIA STATES THAT THE
CALLER USED DEFINITE CUBAN SPANISH. THE TRANSCRIBER ALSO BELIEVES
THE CALLER IS NOT WELL EDUCATED
SECRET
NW 50953 DocId:32301772 Page 3

PAGE 03 RUEAIIA 4304 SECRET SECRET
4. ON 15 NOVEMBER THE CALLER REFERRED TO HIS PREVIOUS RELATION-
SHIP WITH RODRIGUEZ AND CICARD, AND SAID THAT THE MEETING HE (THE
CALLER WAS INVOLVED WITH HERE PRESUMABLY IN THE USA) HAD BEEN
SUSPENDED UNTIL "THE FIFTEENTH". THAT HE WANTED TO GO AND EXPLAIN
WHAT IS TAKING PLACE, AND THAT ENSENAT SHOULD RELAY THE INFORMATION
TO PINEIRO (PRESUMABLY MANUELY PINEIRO LOSADA. CHIEF OF THE
CUBAN LIBERATION DIRECTORATE WHO IS CURRENTLY BELIEVED TO BE IN
HAVANA). ENSENAT SAID HE WOULD PASS THE MESSAGE TO THE FOREIGN
MINISTRY THE CALLER SAID HE WOULD TELEPHONE ENSENAT AGAIN AT THE
SAME TIME ON THE FIFTEENTH.
5. WE ARE UNABLE TO MAKE MUCH SENSE OUT OF THE CALLS ANY
POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION YOUR ORGANIZATION CAN MAKE OF THE CALLER
AND HIS ACTIVITIES, BASED ONHIS CABLE AND YOUR REVIEW OF THE 15
NOVEMBER TAPE. WILL BE APPRECIATED

6. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECALSSIFICATION SCHECULE OF EO
11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B2. AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON DATE
IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE. CLASSIFIED BY
ANNNN
JDR JB SECRET
NW 50953 DocId:32301772 Page 4
