File #:

66-mm-3346

Serial Scope:

1-17, 19-27, 30-32

NW-88608-Docld:32989820-Page-1-

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

Routing Slip
FD-4 (Rev. 4-20-81)
To: Director
Att.:
☑ SAC
☐ Supv.
☐ Agent
☐ SSS
☐ Rotor #
☐ Steno
☐ Typist
☐ M
☐ Room
FILE #
TITLE
Date
6/8/83

RE:
☐ Acknowledge
☐ Bring file
☐ Call me
☐ Correct
☐ Deadline
☐ Delinquent
☐ Discontinue
☐ Expedite
☐ File
☐ Assign Reassign
☐ For Information
☐ Handle
☐ Initial & return
☐ Leads need attention
☐ Open case
☐ Prepare lead cards
☐ Prepare tickler
☐ Recharge file serial
☐ Return assignment card
☐ Return file serial
☐ Return with action taken
☐ Return with explanation
☐ Search and return
☐ See me
☐ Type

Send to:

The following file(s) have been retained in
SAC Safe for some period of time; however, space
is now at a premium. File(s) are being returned
to appropriate supervisor for review and for
determination as to whether file may be destroyed,
placed in closed files, or in Supervisor's safe,
if one available.

Per nettles constructions &
review, enclosed to be filed
in FCI safe & ADMIN
DESK X INDICES changed
Accordingly Thanks Elane

A SAC Nettles

See reverse side
Office
GPO: 1982 0 391-714
Fofanta
Maintain in Pol
safe
MAINTAINED
AS TOP SERIAL

NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 2

VZ.CZ CHQ01.66

RR PH MM

DE HO #0166 2302222.

IZINY EEEEE!

R 172203Z AUG 84

FM DIRECTOR FBI

TO FEI MIAMI ROUTINE

PERSONAL ATTENTION

FBI, PHILADELPHIA

ATTN: SSRA KLAUS ROHR

UNCLAS EFTO

ORGANIZED CRIME, REGIONAL TRAINING CONFERENCE, SEPTEMBER 25-27,
1984, BETHLEHEM, PENNSYLVANIA.

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ALBANY, AUGUST 15, 1984. 185-10198

REBUTEL INVITED VARIOUS EAST COAST FIELD DIVISIONS TO SEND

ORGANIZED CRIME SUPERVISORS AND AGENTS ASSIGNED TO ORGANIZED

CRIME MATTERS TO ABOVE TRAINING CONFERENCE, AIMARY THRUST

OF THIS CONFERENCE WILL BE THE LON AND NARCOTICS VIOLATIONS.

IN-VIEW OF THE FACT THAT THE MIAMI DIVISION HAS VARIOUS

MEMBERS OF EAST COAST LON FAMILIES RESIDING WITHIN THEIR

DIVISION AND THE GEOGRAPHIC ROLE SOU FLORIDA PLAYS IN THE

NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 3
SEARCHED
SERIALIZED
3346-32
INDEX
FILED
AUG 17 1984
FBI - MIAMI

DIGE PUO DE HQ 0166 UNCLASE FÍO

MARCOTICS TRAFFICKING AFFECTING THE EAST COAST, MIAMI IS

REQUESTED TO DESIGNATE ATTENDEES TO ABOVE CONFERE NEE THE

NUMBER OF AGENTS ATTENDING THIS CONFERENCE IS BEING LEFT TO

THE DISCRETION OF SAC MIAMI.

SSRA KLAUS ROHR, ALLENTOWN RA, SHOULD BE ADVISED OF THE
NAMES OF ATTENDEES TO THIS TRAINING CONFERENCE.
BT
#0 166

NNNN

66-3317

123-10198

Aub B

NW 88008- Docld:32989820 Page 4

Routing Slip
0-7 (
(12-17-73)
TO: S:

(Copies to Offices Checke

Albany
Albuquerque
Alexandria
Anchorage
Atlanta
Baltimore
Birmingham
Boston
Buffalo
Rutte
Charlotte
Chicago
Cincinnati
Cleveland
Columbia
Dallas
Denver
Poroit
Paso
Monolulu
Houston
Indianapolis
Jackson
Jacksonville
Kausas City
Knoxville
Las Vegas
Little Rock
Los Angeles
Louisville
Memphis
Miami
Milwaukee
Minneapolis
Mobile
Newark
New Ilaven
New Orleans
New York City
Norfolk
Oklahoma City
Omaha
Philadelphia
Ph caix
Pittsburgh
Portland
Richmond
Sacramento
St. Louis
Salt Lake City
San Antonio
San Diego
San Francisco
San Juan
Savannah
Seattle
Springfield
Tampa
Washington Field
Quantico
TO LEGAT:
Beirut
Bom.
Prasiha
Buenos Aires
aracus
Hong Kong
London
Madrid
Manzia
Mexico City
Ottawa
Paris
Rome
Singapore
Tel Aviv
Tokyo

as Directors appearance before house
subcommittee on appropriations liscal year 1977.
12/30/75
DIRECTORS APPEARANCE BEFORE S
COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES,
DECEMBER 10, 1975
(2/76)
66-3242
Retention
For information optional
For appropriate
action
Surep, by
conceal adl
The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report,
sources, paraphrase contents.

Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA
dated
Remorks:

ReButel to all SACs and Legats, 12/10/75.

Enclosed for each Office and Legat is
one copy of the transcript of questions which
were asked Mr. Kelley during captioned appearance,
along with Mr. Kelley's answers to those questions.

Enc. (1)
Bufile
Urfile
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 5
SEARCHED W INDEXED
¡SERIALIZED
FILED
JAN 2 19/0

ΓΟΙ-ΜΙAIVIE

Vol. 20
Copy 5
The United States Senate

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations

With Respect to Intelligence Activities

NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 6

INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION

Wednesday, December 10, 1975

Washington, D. C.

SEARCHED
SERIALIZED
INDEXED
FILED
JAN 2 19/0
FBI-MIA
WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003
(202) 544-6000

166-3346-31

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1
CONTENT

2
STATEMENT OF:
PAGE

3

4
The Honorable Clarence M. Kelley,
Direcotor, Federal Bureau of Inve-
stigation
2451
5

6

7

8

WARD & PAUL
AHW/smnl
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
2447

INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION

1

2

3
Wednesday, December 10, 1975

4

5
United States Senate,

6
Select Committee to Study Governmental

7

8

9
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.

10

11

12

13
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:10
o'clock a.m., in Room 318, Russell Senate Office Building,
the honorable Frank Church (Chairman of the Committee)
presiding.

14

15
Present: Senators Church (presiding), Hart of Michigan,
Mondale, Huddleston, Hart of Colorado, Baker, Goldwater and
Mathias.

16
Also present:
William G. Miller, Staff Director; Frederick

17

18
A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel; Curtis R. Smothers, Minority

19
Counsel; Paul Michel, Joseph diGenova, Barbara Banoff, Frederick

20
Baron, Mark Gitenstein, Loch Johnson, David Bushong, Charles
Lombard, John Bayly, Charles Kirbow, Michael Madigan, Bob

21

22
Kelley, John Elliff, Elliot Maxwell, Andy Postal, Pat Shea,
Michael Epstein and Burt Wides, Professional Staff Members.

23

24
The Chairman. The Committee's witness this morning is

25
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 8

WARD & PAUL
smn 2
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
L

1
the Honorable Clarence M.Kelley, the Director of the Federal
2448
2 Bureau of Investigation.

3

4
5
6
7
8
9
Mr. Kelley was appointed Director in July of 1973 in a
troubled time for the FBI. His experience as an innovative
law enforcement administrator in charge of the Kansas City
Police Department for over ten years, and his previous work as
a Special Agent of the FBI have made him uniquely qualified
to lead the Bureau.

The Select Committee is grateful for the cooperation

10
extended by Director Kelley in the course of its inquiry over

11
the past months. The Committee is also impressed by the

12
openness of the FBI's witnesses before this Committee, and

13
their willingness to consider the need for legislation to

14
clarify the Bureau's intelligence responsibility.

15
It is important to remember from the outset that this

16
Committee is examining only a small portion of the FBI's

17
activities. Our hearings have concentrated on FBI domestic

18
intelligence operations. We have consistently expressed our

19
admiration and support for the Bureau's criminal investigative

20
and law enforcement work, and we recognize the vital importance

21
of counterespionage in the modern world. But domestic

22
intelligence has raised many difficult questions.

23
The Committee has also concentrated on the past rather

24
than on present FBI activities. The abuses brought to light

25
in our hearings occurred years and even decades before Director
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 9

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
7

1
Kelley took charge.

2
The Staff has advised the Committee that under Director

3
Kelley the FBI has taken significant steps to rethink previous

4
policies and to establish new safeguards against abuse. The

5
FBI is now placing greater emphasis on foreign related intelli-

6
gence operations, and less on purely domestic surveillance.

7
The FBI is working more closely with the Justice Department in

8
developing policies and standards for intelligence. These
are welcome developments.

9

10
Nevertheless, many important issues remain unresolved.

11
Therefore, we have invited Director Kelley to share with the

12
Committee his views on some of the considerations the Congress

13
should take into account in thinking about the future of
FBI intelligence. Among these issues are whether FBI surveil-

14

15
lance should extend beyond the investigation of persons
likely to commit specific crimes; whether there should be

16

17
outside supervision or approval before the FBI conducts certain
types of investigations or uses certain surveillance techniques;

18

19
whether foreign related intelligence activities should be
strictly separated from the FBI's domestic law enforcement

20

21
functions, and what should be done to the information already
in the FBI files and that which may go into those files in

22
the future.

23
The Committee looks forward to a constructive exchange

24
of views with Director Kelley this morning, with Attorney

25
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 10
:

smn 4
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
|
9
10
11
WARD & PAUL
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19
20
21
22
23
2450.
General Levi tomorrow, and with both the FBI and the Justice
Department in the next months as the Committee considers
recommendations that will strengthen the American people's
That
confidence in the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
confidence is vital for the effective enforcement of Federal
law and for the security of the nation against foreign
espionage.

Director Kelley, we are pleased to welcome you, and if
you would have a prepared statement you would like to lead off
with, please proceed.

24

25
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 11

WARD & PAUL
1
smn 5
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
2451

1
STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE CLARENCE M. KELLEY,

2
DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

3
Mr. Kelley. Thank you very much, Senator Church and

4
gentlemen.

5
I welcome the interest which this _Committee has shown in

6
the FBI and most particularly in our operations in the intelli-

7
gence and internal security fields.

8

9
10

11

12

13
I share your high regard for the rights guaranteed by the
Constitution and laws of the United States. Throughout my
35 year career in law enforcement you will find the same insis-
tence, as has been expressed by this Committee, upon programs
of law enforcement that are themselves fully consistent with
law.

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25
I also have strongly supported the concept of legislative
oversight. In fact, at the time my appointment as Director of
the FBI and was being considered by the Senate Judiciary
Committee two and one half years ago, I told the members of
that Committee of my firm belief in Congressional oversight.
This Committee has completed the most exhaustive study
of our intelligence and security operations that has ever been
undertaken by anyone outside the FBI other than the present
Attorney General. At the outset, we pledged our fullest
cooperation and promised to be as candid and forthright as
possible in responding to your questions and complying with your
requests.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 12

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smh D

1
I believe we have lived up to those promises.

2
The members and staff of this Committee have had unprece-

3
dented access to FBI information.

4
You have talked to the personnel who conduct security-type

5
investigations and who are personally involved in every facet

6
of our day-to-day intelligence operations.

7
You have attended numerous briefings by FBI officials who

8
have sought to familiarize the Committee and its staff with

9
all major areas of our activities and operations in the national

10
security and intelligence fields.

11
In brief, you have had firsthand examination of these

12
matters that is unmatched at any time in the history of the

13
Congress.
I

14
As this Committee has stated, these hearings have, of

15
necessity, forcused largely on certain errors and abuses. I

16
credit this Committee for its forthright recognition that the

17
hearings do not give a full or balanced account of the FBI's

18
record of performance.

19
It is perhaps in the nature of such hearings to focus

20
on abuses to the exclusion of positive accomplishments of the

21
organization.

22
The Counterintelligence Programs which have received the

23
lion's share of public attention and critical comment constituted

24
an infinitesimal portion of our overall work.

25
A Justice Department Committee which was formed last year
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 13

WARD & PAUL
smn 7
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
2453

1
to conduct a thorough study of the FBI's Counterintelligence

2
Programs has reported that in the five basic ones it found

3
3,247 Counterintelligence Programs were submitted to FBI

4
Headquarters from 1956 to 1971. Of this total, 2,370,

5
less than three fourths, were approved.

6
I repeat, the vast majority of those 3,247 proposals were

7.
being devised, considered, and many were rejected, in an era

8.
when the FBI was handling an average of 700,000 investigative

9
matters per year.

10
Nonetheless, the criticism which has been expressed

11
regarding the Counterintelligence Programs is most legitimate

12
and understandable.

13
The question might well be asked what I had in mind when

14
I stated last year that for the FBI to have done less than it

15
did under the circumstances then existing would have been an

16
abdication of its responsibilities to the American people..

17
What I said then, in 1974, and what I believe today, is

18
that the FBI employees involved in these programs did what they

19
felt was expected of them by the President, the Attorney General,

20
the Congress, and the people of the United States.

21
Bomb explosions rocked public and private offices and

22
buildings; rioters led by revolutionary extremists laid seige

23
to military, industrial, and educational facilities; and

24
killings, maimings, and other atrocities accompanied such

25
acts of violence from New England to California.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 14

WARD & PAUL
T
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smn 8
2454

3

4

5

6

1
The victims of these acts were human beings, men, women,

2 and children. As is the case in time of peril, whether real or
perceived, they looked to their Government, their elected and
appointed leadership, and to the FBI and other law enforcement
agencies to protect their lives, their property, and their
rights.

7
There were many calls for action from Members of Congress

8
9

10
and others, but few guidelines were furnished. The FBI and other
law enforcement agencies were besieged by demands, impatient
demands, for immediate action.

11

12
13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25
FBI employees recognized the danger; felt they had a
responsibility to respond; and in good faith initiated actions
designed to counter conspiratorial efforts of self-proclaimed
revolutionary groups, and to neutralize violent activities.

In the development and execution of these programs,
mistakes of judgment admittedly were made.

Our concern over whatever abuses occurred in the Counter-
intelligence Programs, and there were some substantial ones,
should not obscure the underlying purpose of those programs.

We must recognize that situations have occurred in the
past and will arise in the future where the Government may well
be expected to depart from its traditional role, in the FBI's
case, as an investigative and intelligence-gathering
agency, and take affirmative steps which are needed to meet
an imminent threat to human life or property.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 15
!

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smn 9
2455

1
In short, if we learn a murder or bombing is to be carried

2
out now, can we truly meet our responsibilities by investigating

3
only after the crime has occurred, or should we have the

4
ability to prevent? I refer to those instances where there is

5
a strong sense of urgency because of an imminent threat to

6
human life.

7
Where there exists the potential to penetrate and disrupt,

8
the Congress must consider the question of whether or not such

9
preventive action should be available to the FBI.

10
These matters are currently being addressed by a task

11
force in the Justice Department, including the FBI,

12
and I am confident that Departmental guidelines and controls can

13

1.4
be developed in cooperation with pertinent Committees of Congress
to insure that such measures are used in an entirely responsible

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25
manner.

Probably the most important question here today is what
assurances I can give that the errors and abuses which arose
under the Counterintelligence Programs will not occur again?

First, let me assure the Committee that some very sub-
stantial changes have been made in key areas of the FBI's
methods of operations since I took the oath of office as
Director on July 9, 1973.

Today we place a high premium on openness, openness
both within and without the service.

I have instituted a program of open, frank discussion
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 16

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smn 10

1
in the decision-making process which insures that no future
2 program or major policy decision will ever be adopted without a
2456

3
full and critical review of its propriety.

4
Participatory management has become a fact in the FBI.

5

6

7

8
I have made it known throughout our Headquarters and
Field Divisions that I welcome all employees, regardless of
position or degree of experience, to contribute their thoughts
and suggestions, and to voice whatever criticisms or

9
reservations they may have concerning any area of our operations.

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25
The ultimate decisions in the Bureau are mine, and I take
full responsibility for them. My goal is to achieve maximum
critical analysis among our personnel without in any manner
weakening or undermining our basic command structure.

The results of this program have been most beneficial, to
me personally, to the FBI's disciplined performance, and to
the morale of our employees.

In addition, since some of the mistakes of the past
were occasioned by direct orders from higher authorities outside
the FBI, we have welcomed Attorney General Edward Levi's
guidance, counsel, and his continuous availability, in his
own words, "as a 'lightning rod' to deflect improper requests."

Within days after taking office, Attorney General Levi
instructed that I immediately report to him any requests
or practices which, in my judgment, were improper or which,
considering the context of the request, I believed presented
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 17

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smnll

1
the appearances of impropriety.

2
I am pleased to report to this Committee as I have to the
2457

3
Attorney General that during my nearly two and one half years as

4
Director under two Presidents and three Attorneys General, no

5

6
one has approached me or made overtures, directly or otherwise,
to use the FBI for partisan political or other improper

7

8

9
purposes.
I can assure you that I would not for a moment consider
honoring any such request.

10

11

12

13

14

15

16
I can assure you, too, in my administration of the FBI
I routinely bring to the attention of the Attorney General and
the Deputy Attorney General major policy questions, including
those which arise in my continuing review of our operations and
practices. These are discussed openly and candidly in order
that the Attorney General can exercise his responsibilities
over the FBI.

17

18

19
I am convinced that the basic structure of the FBI today
is sound. But it would be a mistake to think that integrity
can be assured only through institutional means..

20

21

22
Integrity is a human quality. It depends upon the
character of the person who occupies the office of the
Director and every member of the FBI under him.

23

24

25
I am proud of the 19,000 men and women with whom it is
my honor to serve today. Their dedication, their professionalism,
their standards, and the self-discipline which they personally
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 18

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
7
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smn 12
2458

1 demand of themselves and expect of their associates are the

2
nation's ultimate assurance of proper and responsible conduct

3
at all times by the FBI.

4
The Congress and the members of this Committee in

5
particular have gained a great insight into the problems

6 confronting the FBI in the security and intelligence fields,

7
problems which all too often we have left to resolve without

8 sufficient guidance from the Executive Branch or the Congress

9
itself.

10
As in all human endeavors, errors of judgment have been

11
made. But no one who is looking for the cause of our

12
failures should confine his search solely to the FBI, or even

13
to the Executive Branch.

14
The Congress itself has long possessed the mechanism for

15
FBI oversight; yet, seldom has it been exercised.

16
An initial step was taken in the Senate in 1973 when the

17
Committee on the Judiciary established a Subcommittee on FBI

18
Oversight. Hearings had been commenced, and we were fully

19
committed to maximum participation with the members of that

20
Subcommittee.

21
I laud their efforts. However, those efforts are of very

22
recent origin in terms of the FBI's history.

23
One of the greatest benefits of the study this Committee

24
has made is the expert knowledge you have gained of the complex

25
problems confronting the FBI. But I respectfully submit that
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 19

WARD & PAUL
smn 13
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1
those benefits are wasted if they do not lead to the next step,
2459

2
a step that I believe is absolutely essential , a legislative

3
charter, expressing Congressional determination of intelligence

4
jurisdiction for the FBI.

5
Action to resolve the problems confronting us in the

6
security and intelligence fields is urgently needed; and it

7
must be undertaken in a forthright manner. Neither the Congress

8
nor the public can afford to look the other way, leaving it to

9
the FBI to do what must be done, as too often has occurred in

10
the past.

11
This means too that Congress must assume a continuing role

12
not in the initial decision-making process but in the review of

13
our performance.

14
I would caution against a too-ready reliance upon the

15
courts to do our tough thinking for us. Some proposals that

16
have been advanced during these hearings would extend the role

17
of the courts into the early stages of the investigative

18
process and, thereby, would take over what historically have

19
been Executive Branch decisions.

20
I frankly feel that such a trend, if unchecked, would

21
seriously undermine the independence of the Judiciary and cast

23
22 them in a role not contemplated by the authors of our
Constitution. Judicial review cannot be a substitute for Con-

24
gressional oversight or Executive decision.

25
The FBI urgently needs a clear and workable determination
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 20

!
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
smn 14
Phone (Area 202) 544-600

2460
1
2
3
of our jurisdiction in the intelligence field, a jurisdictional
statement that the Congress finds to be responsive to both
the will and the needs of the American people.

4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Senators, first and foremost, I am a police officer, a
career police officer. In my police experience, the must
frustrating of all problems that I have discovered facing
law enforcement in this country, Federal, state, and local, is
when demands are made of them to perform their traditional
role as protector of life and property without clear and
understandable legal bases to do so.
:

11

12
I recognize that the formulation of such a legislative
charter will be a most precise and demanding task.

13

14

15

16
It must be sufficiently flexible that it does not stifle
the FBI's effectiveness in combating the growing incidence
of crime and violence across the United States. That charter
must clearly address the demonstrated problems of the past;

17

18

19
yet, it must amply recognize the fact that times change and
so also do the nature and thrust of our criminal and subversive
`challenges.

20

21

22

23

24

25
The fact that the Department of Justice has commenced
the formulation of operational guidelines governing our
intelligence activities does not in any manner diminish the need
for legislation. The responsibility for conferring juris-
diction resides with the Congress.

In this regard, I am troubled by some proposals which
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 21

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smn 15
2461

1 question the need for intelligence gathering, suggesting that

2 information needed for the prevention of violence can be

3
acquired in the normal course of criminal investigations.

4

5

6
:
!

7
WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

8

9

10
As a practical matter, the line between intelligence
work and regular criminal investigations is often difficult
to describe. What begins as an intelligence investigation may
well end in arrest and prosecution of the subject. But there
are some fundamental differences between these investigations
that should be recognized, differences in scope, in objective
and in the time of initiation. In the usual criminal case, a
crime has occurred and it remains only for the Government to
identify the perpetrator and to collect sufficient evidence
for prosecution. Since the investigation normally follows
the elements of the crime, the scope of the inquiry is
limited and fairly well defined.

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25
By contrast, intelligence work involves the gathering of
information, not necessarily evidence. The purpose may well be
not to prosecute, but to thwart crime or to insure that the
Government has enough information to meet any future crisis
or emergency. The inquiry is necessarily broad because it
must tell us not only the nature of the threat, but also whether
the threat is imminent, the persons involved, and the
means by which the threat will be carried out. The ability
of the Government to prevent criminal acts is dependent on
our anticipation of those criminal acts. Anticipation,
NW 88608 Docld:32989820 Page 22

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smn 16
2462

1
in turn, is dependent on advance information, that is, intelli-

2
gence.

3
Certainly, reasonable people can differ on these issues.

4
Given the opportunity, I am confident that the continuing need

5
for intelligence work can be documented to the full satisfaction

6
of the Congress. We recognize that what is at stake here is not

7
the interests of the FBI, but rather the interests of every

8
citizen of this country. We recognize also that the resolution

9
of these matters will demand extensive and thoughtful

10
deliberation by the Congress. To this end, I pledge the

11
complete cooperation of the Bureau with this Committee or

12
its successors in this important task.

13

14
In any event, you have my unqualified assurance as
Director that we will carry out both the letter and the spirit

15
of such legislation as the Congress may enact.

16
That is the substance of my prepared statement.

17

18

19
I would also like to say extemporaneously that I note
that on this panel are some gentlemen who were on the Judiciary
Committee which heard my testimony at the time I was presented

20

21

22
to them for candidacy as Director of the FBI. At that time
I took very seriously the charge which may possibly result
in the deliberation of this Committee and of the full Senate.

23

24

25
I have been well aware of the problems of the FBI since that
time. I have also been well aware