Date : 03/06/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10017
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 65-69778-2

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM: SAC, NY
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 11/19/65
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : JJC, ARREST, MP PDT, POSSESSION OF NARCOTICS, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/27/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318 Docld:34489812 Page 1

2025 Release under the President John
F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
UNITED STATES GOV NMENT
Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM : SAC, NEW YORK (65-23745) (C)
SUBIECT: CHANGED
ERNST FRIEDRICH HAAS
ESP
(ALEM)
(00: NEW YORK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
DATE: 11/19/65

CONFIDENTIAL

Class
Exempt from E.O. 13292, Section 3.4
Date of Declassification Indefinite

The title of this case is being marked "Changed"
to reflect the subject's complete name as ERNST FRIEDRICH
HAAS as obtained from his INS File, Alien Registration
Number (ARN) A-11 076 319, maintained by INS, NYC.

ReWFOlet, dated 9/20/65, furnished the subject's
name as a possible suspect for a KGB Illegal Agent under
the criteria of the ALEM Program Specifically, subject
entered the US as the husband of an American citizen and
immigrated from a country other than his native land

INS Data Processing Records, Central Files,
WDC, reflect that ERNST FRIEDRICH HAAS, an Austrian
national who last resided in France, entered the US
at NYC in January of 1963, as the husband of an American
citizen. His occupation was listed as that of a photographer
and that he had previously entered the US in 1962.

INS FILE

On 10/18/65, Mr. SIDNEY A. DAVIS, Assistant Chief,
Records, Administration and Information Section, INS, 20
W. Broadway, NYC, made available to SA WILLIAM F, MARTIN the
INS File for ERNST FRIEDRICH HAAS, ARN A-11,076 6319.

MCT.5 65-69778-2

Bureau
5 NOV 23/1965
1-New York 105-23677) (ALEM) REC- 39
1-New York (65-23745)

RGP:jth
Classified by
Declassify on

CONFIDENTIAL

SOVIET SECTION

53 DEC 9 1965

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
NW 78318 Docld:34489812 Page 2

NY 65-23745

CONFIDENTIAL

entitled "MURRAY L. HUMPHREYS aka; ANTI-RACKETEERING".

OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

Based on the above information, witch does
not appear that the subject fits within the criterian
of the ALEM Program. It is to be noted that the subject
was in the US for a considerable amount of time before he
married an American citizen and had been granted Permanent
Residence on a Non-Immigrant status prior to his marriage to
CYNTHIA HAAS.

Although the subject did enter the US with the
profession of a photographer and had employment with Magnum
Photos, Inc. upon his entry, thite does not appear that his
services were solicited by this company because of a special
skill.

In view of the above, it is the opinion of the
NYO that further investigation of the above is not warranted
and this case is being placed in a closed status.

-4-

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 78318 Docld:34489812 Page 3
