File #:

162-116395

Serial Scope:

1426- EBF

NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

(RI) 105-165706 March 20, 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
RE: BLACK PANTHER PARTY

The Black Panther Party is a black extremist organ-
ization with national headquarters in Berkeley, California.
It now has affiliated groups in over 25 cities throughout the
United States and a membership exceeding 1,200.

The public statements of its leaders repeatedly
stress that the organization's objective is an armed black
revolution against the Government of the United States by
means of guerrilla warfare. Information is regularly
received showing that its members are required to possess
guns and have been instructed in their use. They have been
trained in the preparation of fire bombs and explosives. The
organization strongly supports the Cuban and Chinese Communist
revolutionaries.

Reviews of telephone toll call records and informa-
tion supplied by informants show that the leaders of the
organization use the telephone extensively.

The largest and most active Black Panther Party
chapter outside of the San Francisco Bay area is in
Los Angeles, California. The organization maintains several
offices in the Los Angeles area and has a headquarters office
at 4115 South Central Avenue, Los Angeles. The next most
active Black Panther Party group is located in New York City
which maintains its principal office at 2026 7th Avenue,
New York City.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 2

SECRET
Group-1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

The telephone surveillance on the national head-
quarters of the Black Panther Party which was authorized on
February 4, 1969, has proved to be most valuable. It has
provided information concerning the planned establishment of
Black Panther Party branches at Eugene, Oregon; Fresno,
California; the Watts area of Los Angeles, California;
Syracuse, New York; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; and Columbus,
Ohio. It provided information concerning the removal of
Joudan Ford from his leadership position in the New York City
branch and, most recently, has furnished details concerning
the travel of National Chairman Bobby George Seale to the
Scandinavian countries where Seale is at the present time.

Live informants are furnishing information indicat-
ing that the organization will increasingly use underground
methods of operation which further emphasizes the desirability
of obtaining additional coverage to supplement data being
furnished by our live informants.

It is requested that authority be granted for
telephone surveillances on the Black Panther Party headquarters
at 4115 South Central Avenue, Los Angeles, and on the Black
Panther Party office at 2026 7th Avenue, New York City, or on
any other places to which they may move.

APPROVED
DATE
3/20/69

NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 3

Respectfully,

eloon Hoover
John Edgar Hoover
Director

SECRET
- 2 -

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

(RI) 105-165706-Sub 34 December 31, 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: BLACK PANTHER PARTY
NEW YORK DIVISION

You have previously authorized this Bureau to
initiate and continue a telephone surveillance on the
office of the extremist Black Panther Party (BPP) in
New York City located at 2026 Seventh Avenue. This
installation continues to provide significant data on
this group's plans and operations, and it is apparent
the BPP in New York City is second only to the national
headquarters in Berkeley, California from the standpoint
of generating plans for racial violence.

This Bureau has developed information that the
BPP in New York recently opened an office at 1370 Boston
Road, Bronx, New York! This office is known as the Black
Community Information Center and reportedly is to function
as the East Coast Information Center for the BPP. It is,
therefore, apparent that a telephone surveillance at this
location will provide access to invaluable data regarding
the BPP's plans and activities, not only on a local level
in New York City, but on a national scale as well.

It is, therefore, requested that authority be
granted for a telephone surveillance at the above location.
The telephone, concerning which coverage is requested, is
listed in the name of Ronald Morris, a known BPP member
in the New York area.

SECRET
Group-1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI.
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 4

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

In view of the violence-prone nature of the BPP
it can reasonably be anticipated that subjects involved in
past or future criminal violations may be monitored. The
guidelines to be followed, as previously furnished by you,
will be strictly complied with in such instances.

If you approve, a telephone surveillance will
be placed on the above BPP office at 1370 Boston Road,
Bronx, New York. If the coverage proves productive, it
will be continued for an indefinite period. There will
be no trespass involved in connection with the installation
of this telephone surveillance.

APPROVED

DATE 1/2/70
L.NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 5

Respectfully,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

SECRET
- 2 -

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

(RI) 105-165706 Sub 34 March 25, 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: BLACK PANTHER PARTY
NEW YORK DIVISION

On December 12, 1970, you authorized this Bureau
to continue for an additional three months, effective
December 28, 1970, a telephone surveillance on the office
of the Black Panther Party (BPP) in New York City located
at 1370 Boston Road! This office has recently been
designated the East Coast Ministry of Information for the
Eldridge Cleaver faction of the BPP This installation
provides extremely valuable and voluminous data regarding
the BPP! It is an invaluable source for coverage concerning
dissension within the Party and the interrelationship between
the Cleaver faction in the United States, Cleaver, and other
of his followers in Algeria. Examples of significant data
produced by this source are the following:

On a daily basis since December, 1970, this
source furnished details concerning local, national, and
international operations of the BPP including information
on the recent internal dissension within the BPP termi-
nating in the factional split between BPP leaders Huey P.
Newton and Eldridge Cleaver. On January 10, 1971, this source
furnished data concerning the BPP's fortification of its office
at 1370 Boston Road. On February 8, 1971, the source provided
data on the disappearance and expulsion of BPP leaders Michael
Tabor, his wife Connie Matthews Tabor, Richard Moore, and
Edward Joseph. Michael Tabor, Moore, and Joseph/are currently

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
ration outside your Committee. Its use i.. limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person
nel without the express approval ofEURETBI
the

Group
Excluded from automatie
downgrading--and
declassification
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 6

SECRET

MEI-MORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

being sought as fugitives for Unlawful Flight to Avoid
Prosecution on charges of conspiracy to commit arson and
murder. On February 26, 1971, this source furnished infor-
mation concerning Huey Newton's expulsion of Eldridge Cleaver
from the BPP Cleaver, a Bureau fugitive, is residing in and
operating from Algiers, Algeria. On March 5, 1971, this source
advised that Cleaver was moving the BPP's Central Headquarters
from Oakland, California, to New York City. On March 19, 1971,
the source furnished data on apparent plans of BPP members in
Newark, New Jersey, to obtain explosive materials.

The monitoring of this surveillance will be conducted
in accordance with instructions contained in your letter of
July 14, 1969, entitled "Electronic Surveillances."

Your authority is requested to continue this telephone
surveillance at the present location for an additional three
months effective March 28, 1971.

Respectfully,

Aroven

APPROVED
DATE

John Edear Edgar Hoover
Director

oastetice
3/25/71
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 7

-SECRET
- 2

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

April 9, 1970
0
:

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
RE: /STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY
WEATHERMAN
New Left
Oriented Campus:
Group

Reference is made to your letter dated May 6, 1969,
concerning the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968.

Mark Rudd national Weatherman leader, in a closed
meeting in early February, 1970, stated the Weatherman factio
of the Students for a Democratic atic Society would go underground,
break Into small groups and direct "strategic sabotage" against
military and police installations by the use of bombs and
confrontation with the police.

On March 6, 1970, a series of dynamite explosions
occurred in a multiple residential dwelling in New York City
in which (Weatherman) activists Theodore Gold and Diana Oughton
were killed. (Cathlyn Wilkerson national Weatherman leader,
was observed leaving the premises at the time of the explosions,
and it is believed other Weatherman members were also in this
building.

On March 18, 1970, a young Weatherman member in
Washington, D. C., advised her father that. that one of the next
things this group would become involved in was to bomb passenger
airplanes, including the Boeing 747, the largest passenger
plane in existence.

In late February, 1970, (Willian Avers was the leader
of a group of Weatherman in Detroit which made plans to bomb:
the Detroit Police Officers Association Building. On March 6,
1970, bombs consisting of ten sticks of dynamite and thirty-
four sticks of dynamite were located in az unexploded condition
at this building and at the 13th Precinct of the Detroit Police
Department, respectively.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure
Subject to Criminal Sanctions

SECRET
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
i
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 8
declassification

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

On March 30, 1970, the Chicago Police Department
discovered a cache of fifty-nine sticks of dynamite in an
apartment at 5433 North Kenmore Street, Chicago. This
dynamite is identical in many respects to the dynamite found
in the Detroit police buildings on March 6, 1970. Investigation
has determined that this apartment was rented to Dianne Donghis
a Weatherman member who is presently in Buffalo, New Yor
on an unknown assignment. Also reported being seen at the
North Kenmore e Strect address was Naomi Jaffe Safier, who is
currently in y in buffalo with Donghi darte as she is most
commonly called, was in contact with Avers shortly prior to
March 6, 1970, when the dynamite was found in the Detroit
police installations.

Two Weatherman members were scheduled to appear in
a local criminal I court court in Detroit in early March, 1970, and
did not appear. Mr. Oliver Fein, 31 Vierrepout Street
Brooklyn New York, representing himself as their physician,
advised the court by telegram that these two individuals were
ill and unable to attend. Fein has been identified as a
possible doctor for many Weatherman members who are in an
underground status in the New York City area. He is 30 years
old and has been active in Students for a Democratic Society
affairs since 1964. He reportedly treated individuals injured
in Chicago in August, 1968, during the Democratic National
Convention. In late 1968, he was reportedly contributing
$1,400.00 monthly to Students for a Democratic Society He was
arrested in 1964 during a sit-in demonstration in Cleveland.
Fein is currently connected with the Health Policy Advisory
Center, 17 Murray Street, New York City, a radical medical
organization. Fein is a is a conscientious objector and reportedly
attempting to avoid the draft.

A source at Fein's residence, which is also his office,
has observed photographs on his desk of Cathlyn Wilkerson and
Kathie Boudin, Westherman leaders who are corontly wanted by
the FBI in connection with demonstrations in Chicago on
September 24, 1959, and October 9, 1969. Wilkerson is also
wanted by the FBI as a fugitive in connection with the dynamite
explosions at her father's residence in New York City on
March 6, 1970. This source source also advised there was a
memorandum on Fein's desk indicating he is a doctor of a commune,
not otherwise identified
!
:

SECRET
2
--
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 9

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

A telephone surveillance on the address at
31 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn) would undoubtedly provide
extremely valuable information concerning the possible
whereabouts of Weathermat members, including those members
presently being wanted by this Bureau as fugitives.
Weatherman members live in unknown residences referred to
as communes. Many have apparently moved to the New York City
area. It is well known that these individuals have a
continuing need for medical attention because of the filthy
conditions under which they currently live. Many use drugs
and many are known to be afflicted with venereal diseases.

Based on the information previously set forth,
it can be expected that all of the individuals who have access
to the phone at (31 Pierrepont Street. Brooklyn, either are
or may become subjects of either local or Federal criminal
violations. It is also anticipated, based on this information,
that results from a telephone surveillance at/31 Pierresent
Street Frooklyn, will be introduced as evidence in court
or that leads to evidence may be obtained; therefore, this
request is being made not only for the purpose of obtaining
intelligence-type information, but also on the basis that
evidence will be obtained that will be used in court. In
line with instructions on page five of your referenced letter,
the following information is set forth:

1. Some of the individuals who may utilize the
phone at 31 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn, are currently the
subjects of Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution investigations.
Oliver Fein has stated he is a conscientious objector and is
trying to avoid the draft. It is further believed that
individuals having access to the phone at this address will
become involved in violations of the Destruction of Government
Property statute, the Destruction of Aircraft or Motor
Vehicles statute and the Antiriot Law.

2. At the present time, we are conducting both
intelligence and criminal investigations on the individuals
who may utilize this address and phone number. As previously
noted, many of the Weatherman members we are now investigating
arė fugitives. We do not have sufficient live informant
coverage of these individuals,
:
i

SECRET
3
NW 88608 Docld: 32989583' Page 10

SECRET

MORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

3. As set forth previously in this memorandum,
River Fet who has been extremely active in (Students for
cratic Society affairs and who may be in contact with
members, will utilize the phone at (31 Picrrepont
It is anticipated other individuals in the
esthermal group will also use this phone; however, their
Contities are unknown at this time.

4. It can be expected that the interceptions on
the phone st(31 Pierrepont Street will furnish us with
Intormation concerning the whereabouts of Weatherman members
And pomibly the whereabouts of Meatherman rembers who are
Fugitive5. It could possibly furnish us with plans of this
group to violate Federal statutes as noted above.

I, therefore, recommend the installation of a
telephone surveillance at (31 Piestepondirect, Brooklyn,
New York, for a period of thirty days. If approved, you
will be advised when this installation has been made.

Respectfully,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

// MITCHELL
1
PROVED
A
4/9/70
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 11

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INN

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535
May 25, 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ΑΤΤΟΓ-NEY GENERAL
RE:

#10
COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF THE STUDENTS
FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY
INTERNAL SECURITY
-
C
New Left Oriented
Campus Grolfp

The captioned organization is a socialist-oriented
youth group which is self-described as an organization of
"liberals and radicals." It claims to have a membership of
1,700 with chapters on 41 college campuses. The national
headquarters of this organization is located at/1103 East
63rd Street, Chicago, Illinois.

This organization has recently been extremely active
in staging protest demonstrations against United States action
in Vietnam and sponsored a "Student March on Washington" in
April, 1965, at which time approximately 15,000 demonstrators
paraded in front of the White House. Information has recently
been developed that within the Students for a Democratic
Society there is a secret group known as the Crisis Committee,"
the purpose of which is to organize resistance to the forces
of the United States Government in the event of a crisis of
a national or international scale. Members of this Committee
would be called upon to block roads leading to missile bases,
persuade troops to desert or lay down their arms, and blockade
embarkation points.

An investigation of this organization is being
conducted to determine the extent to which it is infiltrated
by communists and other subversive elements.

In view of the potential threat the activities of
this organization represent to the national defense interests
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 12
4
n

Memorandum For the Attorney General

of the Nation, you are requested to authorize a technical
surveillance at the office of the national headquarters of the
Students for a Democratic Society, at 1103 East 63rd Street
Chicago, Illinois, or at any other premises it may occupy
in the future.

Respectfully,

APPROVED
2004
DATE

NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 13

-
John Edgar Hoover
Director
2
-

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

May 14, 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY
INTERNAL SECURITY - STUDENTS FOR A
DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY
New Left
Oriented Campus
Group

The Students for a Democratic Society is a part of
the New Left movement which is currently organized into
approximately 235 chapters throughout the United States. The
national headquarters is at 1608 West_Madison_Street, Chicago,
Illinois.

The Students for a Democratic Society is a fiercely
anarchistic group whose spokesmen boast of their determination
to end our form of Government and destroy the traditions of
democracy. Members of this organization have been in the fore-
front of the protest movement against United States policy in
Vietnam and have called for an end to selective service as well
as founding a number of antidraft unions.

During the past year drastic changes have occurred in
the tactics employed by the Students Students for a Democratic Society
to achieve their objectives. Students for a Democratic Society
leaders who formerly advocated "nonviolence" and "passive
dissent" are now urging the use of violence as a form of "active
resistance" against the existing social order. Confrontation
with school administrators now involves violence and heavy
destruction of school property. Since April, 1968, major dis-
orders precipitated by the revolutionary adherents of the
Students for a Democratic Society have occurred on a number of
college campuses.

At the Students for a Democratic Society National
Convention held in June, 1968, one of the workshops dealt with
explosives and sabotage techniques. The same militant mood
was in evidence at a Students for a Democratic Society National
Council meeting held in October, 1968, where pamphlets dealing
with the making of various explosive devices were made available
to the Students for a Democratic Society members.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use i limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI:
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 14

Preluded from automatic
downgrading and
doclassification

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

At a (National Council meeting of this organization
held in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in December, 1968, a manual cap-
tioned Work-In, a National SDS Summer Project was brought
to the attention of delegates to the meeting. This manual
which has received wide distribution in this country sets
forth a program by Students for a Democratic Society, to
invade industrial plants and other business ness organizations
this summer for the purpose of disrupting operations and
conducting an intensive propaganda campaign among employees
geared against the United States and particularly private
industry.

At an Eastern Regional Conference of the/Students
for a Democratic Society held on February 1-2, 1969, at
Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, a five-page
proposal entitled Smash the Military Machine in the Schools
was distributed by the Columbia University Students for a
Democratic Society chapter. This proposal called for fomenting
student uprisings, uprisings, agitational agitation demonstrations and other
disturbances and violence in universities and high schools
this spring throughout the country. It strongly emphasized
a nation-wide attack on Reserve Officers Training Corps on
college campuses.

While this proposal has never been passed in the
form of a resolution by the National Office of the Students
for a Democratic Society, it nevertheless has been implemented
on a number of occasions this spring by/Students for a
Democratic Society members and sympathizers The major attack
against Harvard University in April, 1969, was to abolish
the Reserve Officers Training Corps at the University. Such
attacks have also occurred at Yale University, George Washing-
ton University, Dartmouth College, Cornell University,
California State College, Michigan State University and at
many other colleges and universities.

At the Students for a Democratic Society National
o
Council meeting held in Austin, Texas, in March, 1969,
Michael Klonsky, Students for a Democratic Society National
Secretary, advocated that Students for a Democratic Society
become a strong, centralized, Marxist-Leninist, revolutionary
movement. Many of the national leaders of Students for a
Democratic Society support/Klonsky in this regard.
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 15

- 2 -

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

During the six-month period from August, 1968,
through January, 1969, 449 telephone calls were made from
Students for a Democratic Society National Headquarters out-
Side of the State of Ill Illinois. During this same period of
time an additional 86 telephone calls were made in Illinois
outside of the metropolitan Chicago area.

A telephone surveillance on the national headquarters
of the Students for a Democratic Society would provide extremely
valuable information concerning the plans of this organization
with respect to its efforts to implement its programs. Such
a surveillance would supply valuable data concerning the advance
planning of this group, its leaders and the source of its funds.

I, therefore, recommend the installation of a tele-
phone surveillance on the national headquarters of the/Students
for a Democratic Society, 1608 West Madison Street, Chicago;
Illinois, or any other address to which this organization may
move in the future.

Respectfully,

APPROVED
2004
DATE

NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 16

-
John Edgar Hoover
Director
2
-

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

February 12, 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY
New Left
Oriented Campus
Reference is made to this Bureau's memorandum dated Group
November 13, 1969, captioned Students for a Democratic
Society By your approval of that memorandum on November 13,
1969, you authorized the continuance of the telephone surveil-
lance on the national headquarters of the captioned organization
at 1608 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois.
11

The telephone surveillance mentioned above has
continued to be a source of extremely valuable, timely and
pertinent information concerning the activities, strategy,
plans, and operations of the Weatherman faction of the
Students for a Democratic Society. The Weatherman faction
has been in complete control of the national headquarters of
the Students for a Democratic Society since the June, 1969,
National Convention. The Weatherman faction is totally
committed to violent revolution at this time and has made
strategic plans to build an underground paramilitary organization
designed to carry out guerrilla warfare in the cities of the
United States.

Weatherman members have moved into collectives in
the major cities of the country and in an effort to keep
their whereabouts unknown to local and Federal authorities
are continuously moving from one collective to another.
Sensitive information from the telephone surveillance has enabled
the Federal Bureau of Investigation to locate many of these
individuals as well as ascertaining the location of their
frequently changing collectives. Furthermore, the identities
of persons who participated in the recent trip to Cuba sponsored
by the Venceremos Brigade have been furnished by this source.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI

SECRET
Excluded fatte
Gown Taung and
declass
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 17

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

It is believed this surveillance's potential for
continuation of this high-level performance is excellent,
especially in furnishing information concerning the leadership,
policy, and activities of the Students for a Democratic
Society

There are a substantial number of individuals
currently under Antiriot Laws investigation as a result of
their activity in Chicago, October 8-11, 1969. It is likely
that certain of these individuals may be overheard on this
surveillance.

At the current time, the Weatherman group is being
forced to leave the premises at 1608 West Madison Street
However, a new headquarters has not been located and the
move has not been completed.

Your authority is requested to continue the telephone
surveillance at 1608 West Madison Street or to whatever new
location the leadership of the Heatherman faction moves, for
an additional three months. When the move is effected and
telephone service installed at the new location, you will be
advised.

ROVE
APPROVED

DATE 7/17/70
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 18

Respectfully,
anddove
John Edgar Hoover
Director

SESIRET
-2-

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

March 27, 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: THE YOUNG LORDS ORGANIZATION
1678 MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK, NEW YORK
INTERNAL SECURITY
-
YOUNG LORDS

#12
Investigation by this Bureau has revealed that
the Young Lords has its principal offices in Chicago and
New York and is attempting to establish a nationwide organi-
zation based on Marxist-Leninist principles enunciated by
Communist China and Cuba. The Young Lords has received
political education from and has embraced the basic program
of the Black Panther Party. It has accepted aid and direction
from revolutionary Puerto Rican groups seeking independence
for Puerto Rico. Its publication, "YLO," is replete with
calls for revolutionary action.

The New York Young Lords in December, 1969, seized
a neighborhood church and held it for ten days before being
evicted by police action. On March 5, 1970, an officer
of the Young Lords in New York stated before a college audience,
"From now on when the fascist pigs point guns at us, we will
retaliate." The same speaker continued that he and his
brothers in the Young Lords would no longer remain calm but
would be violent "from this day on."

Your authorization is requested to institute
telephone surveillance coverage on the New York headquarters
of the Young Lords located at 1678 Madison Avenue, New York,
New York, for a period of three months. This installation
will be made away from the premises and will not involve
trespass.

It is expected that the requested telephone
surveillance coverage will provide valuable intelligence
information vital to the internal security concerning the
Young Lords efforts to establish a national organization,
its connections with the Black Panther Party and Puerto Rican
independence groups, as well as provide intelligence regarding
potential violence by this group. NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
"
NW 88608 Docld:32989,583 Page 19
اجمد

SECRET
Group 1
Unauthorized Disclosure
Subject to Criminal Sanctions
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

SECRET

Memorandum for the Attorney General

The monitoring of this surveillance may result
in the interception of conversations involving individuals
who are or may be defendants or attorneys in pending Federal
cases. Therefore, monitoring of this surveillance will be
conducted in accordance with instructions contained in your
letter of July 14, 1969, entitled "Electronic Surveillances."

Respectfully,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

APPROVED: Mittel

DATE: 3/30/20
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 20

SECRET
- 2-

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

June 19, 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: YOUNG LORDS PARTY
FORMERLY THE YOUNG LORDS ORGANIZATION
1678 MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK, NEW YORK
INTERNAL SECURITY
-
YOUNG LORDS PARTY

Reference is made to this Bureau's memorandum
dated March 27, 1970, captioned The Young Lords Organization,
1678 Madison Avenue, New York, New York, Internal Security
Young Lords, approved by you on March 30, 1970, seeking
authority to institute a telephone surveillance on the
New York headquarters of the Young Lords Organization.

On May 25, 1970, captioned New York group split
from the Chicago group of the Young Lords Organization on the
grounds that the Chicago group was not providing leadership
to form a successful revolutionary party. The Young Lords
Party has retained the same program, leadership, membership,
and headquarters in New York as its predecessor.

Our coverage of the captioned organization has
resulted in obtaining valuable data concerning the travels of
the leaders and plans for a demonstration of the captioned
organization. Coverage has also furnished valuable data con-
cerning the organizational and financial structure of the group
and has furnished data concerning the identity of at least 15
new members of the group. The installation enables this Bureau
to gain valuable intelligence data concerning the activities
and scope of this revolutionary group.

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatio
lowngrading and
leclassification

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure
Subject to Criminal Sanctions
NW 88608 Docld:32989583..Page 21.

SECRET

The Attorney General

Your authority is requested to continue the
telephone surveillance at the headquarters of the Young Lords
Party in New York for an additional three-month period,
effective June 30, 1970.

APPROVED

DATE 6/19/70
NW 88608 Docld:32989583 Page 22.

Respectfully,

edgas looven
John Edgar/Hoover
Director

SECRET
- 2 -

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

July 15, 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: YOUNG LORDS PARTY (YLP)
INTERNAL SECURITY YOUNG LORDS PARTY

Reference is made to this Bureau's memorandum dated
June 19, 1970, and approved by you on the same date wherein
you approved continuation of telephone surveillance at the
headquarters of the YLP in New York for a three-month period,
effective June 30, 1970.

It has been determined that telephone service at YLP
headquarters has been terminated due to nonpayment of the
telephone bill. Accordingly, the coverage previously approved
by you is being discontinued, effective July 15, 1970.

The YLP continues to have telephone service at its
Bronx, New York, chapter which is also the center for publica-
tion of its revolutionary paper, "Palante." It would appear
that YLP activity in the New York area will now be centered at
the YLP office, Bronx, New York. Previous technical surveillance
coverage of YLP headquarters provided valuable intelligence data
regarding the organizational and the financial structure of the