File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

477 THRU IST NR 497

3RD NR 497 THRU 499

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 1

File #:
62-116395

Serial Scope:

477 THRU IST NR 497

3RD NR 497 THRU 499

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act
1992 [44 USC 2107 Notel Case#: NW 88608 Date: 03-18-2025

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. R. L. Shackelford
DATE: 7/28/75
1 - Mr. K. A. Mendenhall

FROM : R. L. Shackelford

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

Reference is made to W. O. Cregar to Mr. W. R.
Wannall memorandum dated 7/24/75, captioned as above. This
memorandum advised CIA had prepared a document citing instances
wherein CIA believed some of its activities may have exceeded
its legal mandate. Portions of this CIA document were
furnished this Bureau and referenced memorandum requested
documents pertaining to a particular Bureau division and/or
Intelligence Division section be reviewed to identify the
subject matter and make an assessment as to whether any
compromise to this Bureau's operation is involved. Those
portions of the CIA document pertaining to the IS-2 Section
of the Intelligence Division are pages 29, 30, 171, 190,
191, 193, 194, 197, 198, 203, 330, and 482.

A review has been made of the material, supra, and
the following comments apply:

Pages 29, 30, under the heading "Merrimac," refer
to recruitment and handling of "several Agents" to covertly
monitor dissident groups in the Washington area and states
one was so successful the "Agent" was turned over to the FBI.
We have no idea who the "Agent" was and in absence of identi-
fying information no compromise exists to Bureau operations.
REC-102 document Citrea 499
Page 171 refers to CIA producing a document titled
Titled
"Restless Youth" in two versions. The version dealing with
radical students in America was sent only to the President
and two other high officials. Page 171, itself, in no way...
compromises Bureau operations.

14 AUG 11 1975
Pages 190, 191, also deal with the "Restless Youth"
document, which disclose the document only went tomine
freaders, "a copy may be in the Johnson Library," and refers
to updating of the document. These pages, themselves, in no
way compromise Bureau operations.

62-116395
KAM:Im
(5)

CONTINUED OVER

21075
NW 860 Botia 32980626 Page 2

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

Pages 193, 194, refer to CIA participation in prepara-
tion of several short intelligence memoranda dealing with the
foreign connections of U. S. organizations and activists
involved in the anti-war movement. Reference is made to..
collecting information from their own sources "and through
liaison with the FBI." A reference is also made to primary
source of information being "sensitive intercepts produced
by NSA." While these pages do not directly compromise
Bureau operations, disclosure of NSA intercepts could well
indirectly adversely affect Bureau operations by disclosure
of sensitive techniques which . produce extremely valuable
information to the intelligence community, of which the FBI
is a part.

Pages 197, 198, refer to the response to an inquiry
as to involvement in domestic affairs by the Director, Central
Reference Service, CIA, and in no way compromises Bureau
operations.

Page 203 refers to a similar response by Director,
Foreign Broadcast Information Service, CIA, and includes a
reference to their monitoring foreign broadcasts of Jane
Fonda and Ramsey Clark and furnishing transcripts at the
request of the FBI and Department of Justice for consideration
for possible trial use. There is no compromise of Bureau
operations involved as this was to be evidence in a public
trial and would have required CIA personnel to publicly
testify.

Page 330 again makes reference to "Restless Youth"
and use of FBI reports. It also refers to a 1967 CIA study
of "SDS and its foreign ties." The page, itself, does not
compromise Bureau operations.

Page 482 refers to a "project MPLODESTAR," which
involved manipulation of assets against targets in the
"leftist and communist milieu in various parts of the world."
Comments include "each case is cleared with the FBI..." The
page itself does not compromise Bureau operations.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 3
- 2 - CONTINUED OVER

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

ACTION:

None. For information.

Existence of the 693-page CIA document and the
information contained therein should be closely
guarded and disclosed only on a need-to-know
basis.

ком
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 4
- 3 -

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
"GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27
5010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum SECRET

TO : Mr. Cochran
DATE: 7/28/75

FROM : T. F. Kelleher

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

The purpose of this memorandum is to provide an assessment
of the accuracy and possible damage that might be suffered by the Bureau
by the release of information to the Senate Select Committee CIA
as set forth in Cregar to Wannall memorandum dated 7/24/75 captioned
as above.

Attached are separate commentaries relating to items
appearing on corresponding page numbers in the CIA document.

It is to be noted that no written record or personal re-
collection could be located concerning item 7, page 00118 relating to
the purchase of cameras.

Attached are nine pages containing the results of the requested
assessment. Copies of these assessments have also been made for
each designated copy of this memorandum.

ACTION:

For information.

REC-102
ball6 38s well

Enclosures

LENCLOSURE

1-Mr. Cochran
1-Mr. Wannall
1-Mr. McNiff
14 AUG 11 1975

TFK:eb
(4) SECRET
Classified by 129
Exempt from GDS, Category 2 and 3
Date of Declassification Indefinite

DOWNGRADED TO

SECRET
Per 60324 UCBAW/SBS
Date 8-1-11
5-
84 AUG 1.3 1975
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 5

RE: SENSTUDY
TOP SECRE

The following are comments prepared by the Radio
Engineering Section of the FBI Laboratory and relate to copies of
excerpted pages from a report written by the Central Intelligence
Agency. Comments are keyed to page numbers which appear in
the lower right-hand corner of each sheet.

1. Page 00112

Paragraph b. refers to FBI purchases of television
equipment and is accurate as to equipment obtained. According to
Bureau records, Purchase Order #21100 was issued to CIA on
4/11/73 and was amended 9/24/73. The items were 1 each WTC-20
@$18, 300 and 1 each WTC-23 @ $18,600. Purchase Order #21469
dated 5/1/73 was issued to CIA for 2 each lens systems totaling $11, 200.

No damage would be suffered by release of this information.

2. Page 00118

Item 9 lists 50 "Actuators, Recorders." This entry is
partially correct.

Bureau records show that Purchase Order #8989 was
issued to CIA on 11/17/71 for 30 each QTC-lls at $488.25, and 20 each
QTC-12As at $236.25.

No damage would be suffered by release of this information.

Item 11 lists 1 "Camera, Video." This entry could refer to
that transaction detailed in Purchase Order #18301 issued to CIA on
11/27/72 for 1 each WTC-20 camera in the amount of $18, 400. Tubes
installed in these cameras were of the type mentioned under Item 12
and 13 below.

Item 12 lists 1 "Tube, Image, Burn-Resistance, Equivalent
of WL 30691." This entry is accurate.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 6
- 1A -
62-11637-
TOP SECRET
LENCLOSURE

TOP SECRET

Purchase Order #16555 was issued to CIA on 9/21/72 in the
amount of $4,639. The video tube was for use in a closed circuit
television camera.

Item 13 lists 2 "Tube, Image, WL 30691" as having been
furnished the FBI on 3/26/71 at a cost of $4,607 each. This entry
is probably a duplication of Item 4 on page 00119. Bureau records
show that Purchase Order #5450 dated 5/21/71 was issued to CIA
for this equipment for use in CCTV cameras. No purchase order
to support two such acquisitions (March and May) could be located.

Item 14 lists 2 "Cameras, Television" at a unit cost of
$18,300. This entry probably refers to that equipment acquired under
Purchase Order #21100 and is detailed in Paragraph b. page 00112, above.

No damage would be suffered by release of this information.

3. Page 00119

Item 2 lists 25 "Actuators, Recorders." The entry is
accurate.

Purchase Order #17204 was issued to CIA on 10/18/72 for 25
each QTC-lls @ $591.94. This equipment is identical to that obtained on
Purchase Order #8989 mentioned above.

Item 3 lists "Tube, Image, Burn-Resistance" etc., and is a
duplication of Item 12 on page 00118. Note identical dates.

Item 4 lists "Tube, Image, WL 30691" and is believed to refer
to the transaction carried as Item 13 on page 00118.

Items 5, 6, and 7 list "Transmitters, Module, Plug-In,
and Power Supply - UWP-39A." These entries are essentially accurate.

Purchase Order #4203 was issued to CIA on 4/6/71 for
2 each transmitters SRT-67 @ $1372.35; 1 each transmitter QRT-10A
@3160.33; 1 each module QWT-18 @ $1247.40; and, 1 each power
supply UWP-39A @ $538.65.

No damage would be suffered by release of this information.

TOP SECRET
-2-
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 7

TOP SECRET

4. Page 00221

Item (A) is believed to be accurate and in the absence of
additional detail no serious damage would be suffered by release of
this information.

Item (B) is accurate and as long as target is not specifically
identified no serious damage should be incurred. It should be recognized,
however, that although the concept of intercepting cryptographic
machine emanations would come as no surprise to those familiar with
intelligence work, confirmation of a functioning system could encourage
implementation of countermeasures which would deprive the U.S. of
invaluable information.

Item (C) is accurate except that the equipment has not been
operated for some time. Without specific identification no serious
damage would result from disclosure of this information.

Item (D) is inaccurate to the extent that it states that
"installation is not fully operational because the full complement
of personnel have not yet arrived." Aside from that, disclosure
of information could lead the knowledgeable foreign government to be
certain of Bureau's participation and take whatever diplomatic steps
they felt necessary. Decision to withhold is an operational/political
one rather than one which would affect technical capabilities and, therefore,
the Laboratory is making no recommendations in this regard.

5. Page 00222

Item (E) is accurate and entirely too revealing. If there
is any way this item can be deleted from material yet to be given to
anyone outside the intelligence community, it should be done. As
written, it suggests a concerted effort toward a penetration to be
attempted in the future. Disclosure of this information could easily
negate millions of dollars already spent and literally years of work
already performed - the largest single project ever undertaken by
this Bureau. In view of our responsibilities in the counter-intelligence
field, the FBI, as well as the intelligence community, and perhaps the
free world as well, would suffer incalculable harm from release of this
information. It would also be appropriate for the Intelligence Division
to comment on this item.

-3-
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 8
TOP SECRE
:A

TOP SECRET

Item (F) is accurate and, although its disclosure is
confirmatory no serious technical damage would result from its
disclosure. To our knowledge, there has been no diplomatic
protest, disclosure could precipitate such protest. Intelligence
Division may wish to comment regarding this possibility.

Item (G) asserts that in one case it is known that CIA
equipment was used against a "domestic target. " This is insufficient
information to identify this matter.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 9
TOP SECRET
-4-

ARABIC LINGUISTS
(Item 6, pgs. 182 & 202)

With regard to press allegations concerning the use
of polygraph, it was noted that during July 1971 the President
was alleged to be furious with unauthorized disclosure of
classified information relative to the SALT Talks as disclosed
in the New York Times. The President directed a sweeping
investigation to determine the source of the disclosure and
this was conducted under the direction of Mr. Egil Krogh and
others of the White House Staff.

A subsequent article in the Washington Post dated
September 3, 1971 stated that a State Department spokesman
had acknowledged at a news briefing that agents of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation had polygraphed State Department
employees suspected of leaking information on the SALT Talks
in July. This statement is not accurate and the Director of
the FBI (J. Edgar Hoover) denied this allegation in a letter
to the Washington Post and said that the polygraph examinations
had been conducted by another agency.

As noted in the CIA notes in fact, it was CIA that
conducted the polygraph examination in conjunction with the
State Department and the FBI was not involved in any way in
these polygraph examinations. It is recalled that FBI
officials had been called to a White House meeting headed
by Mr. Krogh in which it was indicated we might have to
conduct some polygraph examinations and were so alerted.
subsequent call from the White House to the FBI instructed
that the FBI polygraph examinations would not be required.

A
In view of above, it does not appear the FBI would
incur any damage to its reputation or recognized use of the
polygraph in carefully selected criminal and security matters
in which we have jurisdiction.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 10
5

POLYGRAPH
(Item 7, pgs 65-67)
XSECRET

In regard to the CIA notes concerning the subject
of the lending of Arabic linguists to the FBI, the following
is noted:

The FBI's linguistic capacity is limited to those
foreign languages in which translators can be fully utilized
on a full-time basis. When we need translations of foreign
language material beyond our normal translation capacity,
we turn to the governmental linguistic community for
assistance. Such help has been obtained in the past from
such agencies as the Library of Congress, Voice of America,
Foreign Service Institute, Defense Language Institute,
CIA, NSA, Bureau of Indian Affairs, U. S. Information
Agency and Smithsonian Institution. On occasions, we
have also turned to private citizens for help in very
unique situations involving exotic or rare languages.

The massacre of the Israeli athletes in Munich
at the 1972 Summer Olympics and other Arab terrorist
acts fomented a situation involving the national security
of the United States. The FBI needed immediate assistance
in the Arabic language field. A program was immediately
instituted to hire our own Arabic translators and, in the
interim period, CIA lent to our Washington Field Office the
necessary Arabic translators to fulfill our responsibilities.

The opening of the People's Republic of China
Liaison Office in Washington also created a need in the
Washington Field Office for Chinese translators with
special talents. Two such translators were borrowed from
CIA and one of them became an FBI employee for a short
time following his retirement from CIA.

All arrangements for the loan of Arabic and Chinese
linguists from CIA were effected by the Intelligence Division and
the Washington Field Office through their liaison with CIA, and
the FBI Laboratory was not directly involved.

In summary, the CIA notes are accurate. It is
not believed, however, that the FBI would incur any
embarrassment or damages as a result of this interagency
cooperation.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 11
- 6-
X SECRET

SECRET

DISCUSSIONS ON IMAGERY ENHANCEMENT TECHNIQUES

Item 8, (Pg. 00234)

Current personnel are unable to verify or
disclaim contact with CIA regarding this photographic technique.

In all likelihood, this contact was made in
conjunction with our continuing technical liaison with other Federal
agencies.

This consultation was entirely proper and made
to augment the Bureau's capabilities in this area. No deleterious
effect can be seen as a result of exposure of this information.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 12
-7-
X SECRET

SECRET

PURCHASE OF CAMERAS

(Item 7, Pg. 00118)

Based on the information furnished, no
written record or personal recollection of current employees
can attest to or disclaim the whether "20 camera sets" at
a unit cost of $656 were purchased from CIA.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 13
- 8

SECRET

PURCHASE OF CAMERAS

(Item 8, Pg. 00118)

The F. B. I., by purchase order #1793
dated 1/20/72, contracted for the purchase of 10 Tessina
cameras on a transfer of funds basis arranged as a result
of our liaison with the Technical Services Division of CIA.
Cost of these cameras amounted to $7,000.

The Tessina camera is a small, sophisticated
camera which is employed in concealment devices needed
for photographic surveillances.

Although the exact nature of the concealment
devices we employ is not publicized, the disclosure of the
fact that we purchased cameras suitable for this use is not
considered inimical to our operations.

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 14
- 9-
SECRET

Reed from
ete Select Committee.
8-15-75)-
SECRET
August 4, 1975

SenstuEQUEST FOR FBI MATERIALS

1. Materials to which the SSC staff has been given access;
delivery requested by Friday, August 18, 1975:

A. The notebook or binder containing materials on
FBI legal authority and maintained in the Office
of the Special Counsel.

B. Materials pertaining to FBI-CIA relations in 1970
previously made accessible at FBIHQ in excised
form; unexcised versions of the memoranda bearing
the item-number designations 8, 9, 30, 32, and 37.
>

C. "Foreign Operations Policy Manual," previously
made accessible at FBIHQ.

D. The following materials maintained in the so-
called "Official and Confidential" files and
designated "non-derogatory," previously examined
by SSC staff:

1. Agreement Between FBI and Secret Service;

2. Attorney General Submission of Memoranda by
FBI;

3. "Black Bag" Jobs;

4. Expansion of FBI Foreign Intelligence
Coverage;

5. Intelligence Coverage Domestic and Foreign;

6. Directives (60);

7. Cook, Fred (52).
FBI
42-116 395
NOT RECORDED
9 AUG 6 1975

E. Summaries or notes on interviews conducted by
Inspection Division for July 3 Inspection for the
individuals whose names are underscored on the
attached list (slightly expanded from previous
access request).

F. Inspection Reports on the Intelligence Division
and the San Francisco Field Office, as currently
sanitized.

84 AUG 6. 1975
NW 88608 DocId:32989626 Page 15

2
II. Newly requested materials; delivery requested by
Friday, August 11, 1975:

A. All of Section 8 of the Manual of Instructions.

B. Sections 1, 6, 7H, 7J, 8L, and 14 F of the Manual
of Rules and Reulations.

c. Superseding versions of Section 6 of the Manual
of Rules and Regulations.

D. The following materials referred to in
memoranda previously delivered to SSC regard-
ing FBI Legal Attaches:

1. Memoranda of W. C. Sullivan of June 7, 1971,
and June 16, 1971;

2. Memoranda of Mr. Wannall of May 27, 1971, and
May 28, 1971;

3. Letter of Hoover to the President dated
September 21, 1970;

4. Memorandum of W. C. Sullivan dated September
22, 1970;

5. Memorandum of Mr. Brennan dated September 21,
1970;

6. Memorandum of Mr. Child of May 23, 1969;

7. Recommendations of Dalby, Felt, and Beaver
upon the recommendation made in memorandum
of Sullivan of June 7, 1971;,

8. Materials pertaining to conversations between
the President and Hoover regarding foreign
liaison operations in September 1970;

9. Materials pertaining to conversations between
Dr. Kissinger and Hoover in December 1970;

10. Materials pertaining to communications between
the FBI and the State Department regarding
foreign liaison operations in 1970;

11. Materials pertaining to a conference with the
President regarding foreign liaison operations
in June 1971;
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 16

E.
3

12. Material pertaining to an inspection of all
FBI foreign liaison posts conducted in 1971
pursuant to instructions from Hoover to
Assistant Director Ponder in charge of
inspections.

Materials pertaining to the origin, operation, and
termination of the Mass Media Program implemented
by the former FBI Crime Records Division.

F. Materials pertaining to the establishment and
functions of the FBI External Affairs Division.

G. "Guide to Indexing" and "Rules Pertaining to
the General Index", cited at p. 14, Volume 1,
of the Classifying Instructor's Guide.

H. "The Standard Sub List".

I. The following materials pertaining to Project
J.
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 17
INLET:

1. Materials reflecting approval of the
Project on or about November 20, 1969.

2. Inspection Report referred to in SAC
Memorandum of December 26, 1972.

3. Any materials pertaining to recommendations
that the Project be terminated.

4. Letter from FBI to Congressman Les Aspin
in 1973 regarding the Project.

Materials pertaining to the policies and procedures
of the FBI for the use of FBI agents for so-
called, "undercover" activity.

4

III. Newly requested materials; access to screen for
delivery requested by August 18, 1975:

A. The following materials pertaining to Mrs.
Claire (Anna) Chennault and Spiro Agnew:

1. All materials pertaining to the authorization
or re-authorization by the President or the
Attorney General of technical surveillance of
the South Vietnamese Embassy in Washington,
D.C. in 1968.

2. All materials pertaining to the initiation,
authorization, conduct, and termination of
technical or physical surveillance and "tele-
phone checks" of Mrs. Claire (Anna)Chennault
in November 1968.

3. All materials pertaining to the initiation,
authorization, conduci, and Lermination of
technical or physical surveillance and
"telephone checks" of Vice Presidential candidate
Spirto T. Agnew in November 1968.

4. All materials summarizing the results of tech-
nical or physical surveillance, including
incidental overhearings, and "telephone
checks" of Mrs. Claire (Anna) Chennault and
Spiro T. Agnew in November 1968.

5. All materials pertaining to White House
instructions to the FBI for the handling of
the summary letters described in item 4 above.

6. All materials pertaining to actions taken by
the White House as a result of information
contained in the summary letters described
in item 4 above.

7. The current addresses of the following former
Special Agents, who may have participated in the
technical or physical surveillance or "telephone
checks" of Mrs. Claire (Anna) Chennault or
Spiro T. Agnew:

a. Phil Claridge

b. William Jackson
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 18

5

B. The following materials pertaining to Yeoman
Charles E. Radford:

1. All materials, including memorializations
of oral communications, pertaining to the
authorization, initiation, conduct, and
termination of technical surveillances of
Yeoman Charles E. Radford from December
1971 to June 1972.

2. All materials, including memorializations of
oral communications, pertaining to the
authorization, initiation, conduct, and
termination of technical surveillance of
two close personal friends of Yeoman Radford
one retired from the Navy, the other a State
Department employee, from January to April
1972.

3. All materials, including memorializations of
oral communications, pertaining to the
authorization, initiation, conduct, and
termination of technical surveillance of
Yeoman Radford's step-father in Oregon from
February to April 1972.

4. All materials summarizing the results of the
technical surveillances described in items 1
through 3 above.

5. All materials pertaining to actions taken by
the White House as a result of information
contained in the summary described in item 4
above.

C. With respect to surreptitious entries carried out
by the FBI from January 1, 1960 to the present, all
materials pertaining to the following:

1. The date, place, target, and purpose of each
entry;

2. The request and authorization for each entry
including the identities of the agencies
and/or individuals who requested and/or
authorized the entry;

3. The procedures and methods used for the conduct
of each entry;

4. The results of each entry, including the
information obtained and the identities of
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 19

6

the agencies and/or individuals to whom
the information was disseminated.

D. Materials pertaining to any jurisdictional agree-
ments, agreements of coordination, or other agree-
ments between the FBI and any other federal, state
or local agency with regard to the conduct of and
dissemination of information from surreptitious
entries.

E. The performance ratings (Form FD 185) of the
following current or former FBI employees;

1. George Berley

2. Wilfred Bergeron

3. William D. Campbell

4. Richard Suter

5. William Tucker

6. Terry O'Connor

7. Joseph English

F. The current office assignment or last known address
of the individuals listed in E. above.

G. The following materials pertaining to NSA watch list
activity, reportedly in operation from late 1967
through 1973, which involved the monitoring of
international communications that were addressed
to, or from, or included the names of persons on a
changing "watch list:"(s)

1. All materials pertaining to the proposing,
approving, putting names on, executing,
evaluating, or terminating the watch list
activity;

2. All materials (including correspondence) sent
by the FBI to the National Security Agency or
any other entity in the Department of Defense
listing names for the watch list or otherwise
commenting on the activity;

:
NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 20

7-

3. Any internal FBI materials produced as part of
the activity;

4. Any NSA or Department of Defense materials
(including correspondence and reports) regard-
ing the watch list activity sent to the FBI
モンス

H. Materials pertaining to the authorization for FBI
contacts with, dissemination of FBI information to,
receipt of information from, and requests by the
FBI for action by the Special Services Staff of the
Internal Revenue Service. (CIRCA 1969)

I. "The Handbook of Technical Equipment".

J. Materials pertaining to FBI activity with respect
to`the National Environmental Teach-In (also known
as "Earth Day"), April 22, 1970.

K. Philadelphia FBI Field, Office file number 100-51132
(Women's Liberation). (1970-72)

NW 88608 Docld:32989626 Page 21

Assoc. Dir
Dep.-A.D.-Adm....
Dep.-A.D.-Inv
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

CRIGINAL KILD DE 65.
755631

NR014 PH CODE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
JUL01075
TELETYPE
940 PM NITEL JULY 30, 1975 DCC

10: DIRECTOR

FROM: PHILADELPHIA (62-0-23222)

SENSTUDY
SECRET
Chilled by SPLAG/GM
12-19-881.
Declassify om QADR
#A3030

RE PHILADELPHIA NITEL TO DIRECTOR, JULY 29, 1975, BUREAU
PHONE CALL TO PHILADELPHIA AND PHILADELPHIA PHONE CALL TO THE
BUREAU, JULY 30, 1975.

ON JULY 30, 1975, ROBERT THWEAT, U.S. NAVY COMMANDER,
RETIRED, ADVISED HE HAD NO PERSONAL OBJECTION TO HIS NAME BEING
DIVULGED. HOWEVER, THWEAT ADVISED THAT HIS SOURCE IS A RELATIVE
AND THAT ONCE THWEAT'S NAME IS DIVULGED IT WOULD IMMEDIATELY
IDENTIFY HIS SOURCE OF INFORMATION.

THWEAT ADVISED HIS SOURCE HAD RELATED TO HIM THAT ONE
DANIEL O'FLAHERTY, WHO IS EMPLOYED WITH THE CHURCH COMMITTEE, HAD
REMOVED FROM HIS WORK AREA BY HIDING UNDERNEATH HIS SHIRT A CIA
MEMORANDUM CONTAINING DEROGATORY INFORMATION ON SENATOR HENRY
JACKSON. O'FLAHERTY THEN XEROXED THE MEMORANDUM. THE DATE FOR
THIS OCCURRENCE IS NOT KNOWN TO THWEAT. O'FLAHERTY THEN PROVIDED
A COPY OF THE MEMORANDUM TO AN UNKNOWN PERSON FOR SUBSEQUENT
TRANSMITTAL TO SENATOR MORRIS UDALL. THWEAT ADVISED HIS SOURCE

8/1/75 Th
FOT/PA #293030
ANTEAL
CIVIL ACT.
E.0.12356
T
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
DATE 12-19-88 INTECのかるい
$1
84 AUG 1 3 1975
INIAIS GALL
IS [CIA] (5)
NW-88608-Docld:32989626 Page 22
62.116395-
NOT RFCCORD
170 AUG 12 1975
SECRE
HEREIN IS 'INCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT
OTHERWIS

SECRET

PAGE TWO, PH 62-0-23222

STATED THAT O'FLAHERTY HAD PERSONALLY RELATED THIS INFORMATION TO
یا
THE SOURCE. HE FURTHER STATED THAT O'FLAHERTY HAD RELATED TO THE
SOURCE THAT HE, O'FLAHERTY, HAD ALSO TOLD A FORMER ASSOCIATE,
MR. KATZ, CURRENTLY A PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VANDERBILT,
NASHVILLE, TENN., OF HIS, O'FLAHERTY'S, ACTION. KATZ HAD VOICED
A DISPLEASURE AS TO O'FLAHERTY'S ACTION AND DID NOT APPROVE OF HIS
ACTION.

THE CAPTIONED MEMORANDUM DEALT WITH CIA POSSIBLE USE OF
DEROGATORY INFORMATION TO DETERMINE THE DIRECTION SENATOR JACKSON
WOULD TAKE IN FUTURE ACTIONS HE MIGHT ENCOUNTER WHICH WOULD INVOLVE
(S)
CIA ACTIVITY, THWEAT I DOES NOT KNOW IF HIS SOURCE HAS SEEN XEROXED
MEMORANDUM. THWEAT HIMSELF HAS NOT SEEN THE MEMORANDUM.

THWEAT ADVISED HE WILL RECONTACT HIS SOURCE AND ATTEMPT TO
INFLUENCE SOURCE TO COME FORWARD AND REVEAL HIS IDENTITY AND BE
COOPERATIVE IN ANY INVESTIGATION. THWEAT FEELS THIS WILL PROBAB