124-10284-10155	 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System	Date: 6/8/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10155

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-2088

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 07/29/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: EPE, BAYO, ALBERTO, POLIT, REVOLUTIONARY ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32303643 Page 1

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Embassy
Paris 8, France

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 1
Date: July 29, 1960
To: Director, FBI
From: Legat, Paris (109-24)
Subject: CUBAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
Re Paris letter 7/21/60.
SECRET

During a visit to Bern, Switzerland, the captioned
matter was discussed with BURTON LIFSCHULTZ, Chief of the
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Switzerland. He advised(S)
that the Cuban Ambassador, SALAZAR-SANCHEZ, had been dismissed
by the Cuban Government and his replacement has not yet
arrived. LIFSCHULTZ advised that it has been rumored that (s)
he will be replaced by one BAYO. He stated that this
individual has not as yet been definitely identified and
no background information is available regarding him. He
stated, however, that, he may be identical with the son
of "General" ALBERTO BAYO who has previously been reported
as a Spaniard who assisted in the CASTRO revolution and
who has reportedly been active in revolutionary activities
in Spain.

This is furnished for the information of the Bureau.
In the event further specific information is received, the
Bureau will be advised..

P 2ccpios mais
3 Bureau (1 Havana) on 10/31/77 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
1 Madrid (sent direct) for roview at FELAQ by DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
1 Paris HSCA per reg. 9/7/77 RELEASE OF SLA INFORMATION
NWP:mas ONCE IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT
(5) Sez Bufer 62-1172.90 THE BRACKETS
DJC: mer Jm 6-25-97
Copy to Havana KEC-9 109-12-210-2088
by routing slip for
info action 8 AUG 51960
date 8-10-60
EX 109
50 AUG 11 1960 SECRET NAT. INTASEC!
NW 50953 DocId:32303643 Page 2
