124-90137-10468 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/2011
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10468

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: NY
TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: AT

v9.1 10
NW 50953 DocId:32337702 Page 1

1 pich
1 James
6-30-61
UNCLASSIFIED
OTHERWISE
AIRTEL
To: SAC, New York (134-5609)
From: Director, FBI (105-89457)-
NY 3186-PST
REC-85
(56685ug/L JFK) 7-20-98
CLASS FIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECL. DIFY ON: 25X1 (JFK)

12/10/83
Classified by 9803200/80
Declassifyon; NARF 211326

CIA, by liaison, advised Bureau of desire to
contact captioned [PSI] in connection with its Cuban operations.
CIA of opinion [PSI] is in position to assist in the
establishment of courier routes between U.S. and its
contacts in Cuba Contact of [PSI by CIA being held in
abeyance pending Bureau's approval.

Bureau's position in this matter flexible.
We can refuse CIA authority to contact (PSI) or we can let(c)
CIA operate [PSI on its own. We can also serve as inter-
mediary between the PSI and CIA.

Promptly contact [PSI and discreetly ascertain
if he is in position and willing to assist in establishing
courier routes. Do not advise [PSI of CIA's connection at
this time. For information, CIA believes [PSI able to(c)
establish such a system because of his employment with
Cubana Airlines in New York City, and fact he is in contact
with persons regularly traveling to Cuba. Furnish Bureau
results of your contact with[PSIin event (PSI) is in position
to assist in the establishment of a courier system and
willing to do so, you should furnish your observations
concerning PSI's proposed use in this matter.
(2 in

FEJ:eg
(5)
C
CANS NOOIECTION TO
DECLAR/OP,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT
NOTE: PSI Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at BRACKETS IN P'S
Idlewild Airport in New York City. He has been under and 2
development by New York Office since November, 1960, as SD - LSE
and has furnished data concerning operations of Cubana(e) 6-14-98
Airlines and personnel employed by Cubana. In addition. (JFK)

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE ON PAGE TWO

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy
SLD
A
MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT SECO

NW 50953 DocId:32337702 Page 2

To SAC, New York
Re: (NY 3186-PS)
CONFIDENTIAL

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:
The has made available copies of incoming and outgoing
manifests of Cubana flights between New York and Havana.
New York has pointed out that PSI has not furnished data
of unusual value; but because of his position, has a good
potential. CIA advised Liaison Agent Papich it would not
contact until it had received authority to do so from
Bureau. Before allowing CIA to make contact with PSI, it
is believed it would be best for our interests to determine
if PSI can actually assist CIA. If he is in position to
assist that Agency, we will then consider what stand to
take in this matter.

-2-

NW 50953 DocId:32337702 Page 3
