JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 10/21/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10213
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1144

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, NO
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 11/25/66
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : LST, TRA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/21/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318
Docld:34489581 Page 1

2025 Release under the President
John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date: 11/25/66

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via AIRTEL AIR MAIL
(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM: SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-74) REC-163

SUBJECT: SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka
AR

Re Tampa airtel to Bureau 11/4/66.

NO 1457-C-TE advised SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.,
on 11/23/66 that it was sometime in early June, 1966, that,
CARLOS MARCELLO and JOSEPH MARCELLO, together with their LA
spouses, visited TRAFFICANTE in Florida. Informant stated
that the MARCELLOS flew from New Orleans to Tampa, where
they were met by PRIMO LAZZARO and his wife, ALICE LAZZARO. FLA
Informant stated that ALICE LAZZARO was born and raised in
Cuba. TIN CUBA

Informant stated that PRIMO LAZZARO owns some
type of restaurant or nightclub in Tampa and for the past
five to six months, has been commuting frequently between
New Orleans and Tampa, acting as the middle-man between
TRAFFICANTE and MARCELLO. Informant stated that PRIMO and
ALICE LAZZARO have often socially visited Mr. and Mrs.
JOSEPH MARCELLO.

The LAZZAROS met the MARCELLOS at the Tampa
airport and took them to TRAFFICANTE's Tampa home where they
stayed overnight. Early the next morning, the LAZZAROS
drove the MARCELLOS to TRAFFICANTE's beach house at

3 - Bureau (92-2781) REC 63 92-2781-1144
2 - Tampa (92-21)
2 - Miami (92-88) REC-108
3 - New Orleans

NOV 28 1966

Approved: Sent: M Per:

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318
Docld:34489581 Page 2

NO 92-74

St. Petersburg, Florida. CARLOS MARCELLO and his spouse
stayed at the beach house with SANTO TRAFFICANTE and the
LAZZAROs. JOSEPH MARCELLO and his wife stayed at a nearby
motel. Informant does not know the address of this beach
house.

Regarding TRAFFICANTE's 7/4/66 visit to New Orleans,
informant knows that TRAFFICANTE was at the Churchhill Farms
estate of CARLOS MARCELLO during the early afternoon of
7/4/66. Informant does not know exactly when TRAFFICANTE
arrived, but felt he had stayed overnight at Churchhill Farms.
During the early morning of 7/6/66, CARLOS MARCELLO and
JOSEPH MARCELLO, together with their spouses and TRAFFICANTE,
drove across Lake Pontchartrain to the home CARLOS MARCELLO
rents in Covington, La., and spent the better part of the day
there. CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO and SANTO TRAFFICANTE left
that home during the early evening hours of 7/6/66; however,
informant does not know where they proceeded from there.
Informant next saw CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO during the
evening of 7/7/66.

2*

NW 78318
Docld:34489581 Page 3
