JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 10/07/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10146
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-97

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 05/20/59
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS : LST, REL, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318
Docld:34489544 Page 1

2025 Release under the President
John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781) DATE: 5/20/59

FROM : SAC, MIAMI (92-88)

SUBJECT: SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka.
ANTI-RACKETEERING
(00 - Miami)

On 5/11/59, MM-416-C furnished information
concerning the captioned subject to SA JAMES P. O'NEIL.

The informant stated that recently publicity
was afforded the forth coming marriage of the subject's
daughter, MARY JO TRAFFICANTE, to AUGUST C. PANIELLO.
PANIELLO, according to the informant, is the son of the late
Dr. SANTIAGO PANIELLO and Mrs. ELVIRA PANIELLO, presently re-
siding in the Embassy Apartments, Tampa, Florida.

The subject's daughter is currently attending
the University of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, and is a member of
the Sophomore Class. PANIELLO, a graduate of the University
of Tampa, is a student at the Stetson University College of
Law, St. Petersburg, Florida.

The informant related that the wedding, scheduled
for an unspecified date in 6/59, was opposed by the subject and
his wife, partially because PANIELLO was previously married and
divorced. The informant stated that the wedding, according to
information from sources in Tampa, will take place in Havana,
Cuba, and the reason given is to avoid any publicity and the
subject's presence in Tampa.

This information is being furnished to the Bureau
for transmittal to the Legat, Havana, as there is the possi-
bility that the wedding may be the occasion for a gathering of
associates of TRAFFICANTE, particularly those highly placed in
the Underworld.

4- Bureau
37 Miami (1-137-223
JPO:ded

REC-36 92-2781-97
25 MAY 25 1959

66 MAY 27 1959

NW 78318
Docld:34489544 Page 2
