124-10273-10104
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10273-10104
RECORD SERIES: HỌ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1640

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: SECRETARY OF STATE
TITLE: 

DATE: 02/16/1967
PAGES: 102
SUBJECT: CIA, NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOC, PICKETING, DEMONSTRATION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL NEW
CLASSIFICATION: Secret CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 10/30/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001
STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS: EBF, INC 2 ADMIN PAGE, 3 T/T, 34 MEMO, 5 LTR, 2 LHM, 6 NEWS ARTIC, 8
A/T

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 1

AIRTEL
TO: SAC, JACKSONVILLE
2/18/67
AIRMAIL

FROM: SAC, JACKSON (166-NEW) (P)

WENDELL R.MELCUIST;
ANTHONY LENNON:
ITAR -
GAMBLIN (00: Jackson)
This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissem
your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings b
Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI.

Informant
On 2/16/67,PCI LOUISE SKELTON, Biloxi, Miss. advised
on 2/7/67 above subjects registered into the Travel Inn Motel,
Biloxi. PCI stated that at time of registration above subjects
furnished the following information on their motel registration
card:
TRAN
WENDELLTMELOUIST
MISS
"WENDELL MELQUEST
260 Vernal Street
Eugene, Oregon
B. APPROX
1937-1942
"1965 Ford, Florida License 8W20164
Employed, U. S. Government"

"ANTHONY LENNON
43-24 165th Street
Flushing, N. Y.

"Self-employed"
MISS
DC B. APPROX
1937-1942

PCI described MELQUEST as a white male, age 25-30,
height, 5' 5", weight 150 to 160 pounds, dark hair, brown
eyes, medium complexion, and subject LENNON as a white male,
age 25-30, height 6', weight 175 pounds, light brown or sandy
hair, fair or light complexion with freckles.

2 - Jacksonville
2 - New York
1- Portland
4 - Jackson (166-NEW)
WDJ/bJk (3)
62-80750-
-45
SEARCHED.
SERIALIZED,
INDEXED.
FED 23 1967
BIPORTLAND
1- Bureau
4-12.67 La
ENCLOSURE 166-94-1

NW 50953 DocId: 32199369 Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1952 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-107-02
UNITED STATES GONMENT

Memorandum SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI- DATE: 3/6/67
FROM: FELEGAT, HONG KONG (0-2) CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH CIA (S) RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
EXCEPT BRACKETS
ReBulet 2/8/67. Jm 6-18-97

Assistant Chief of Station, CIA, Hong Kong, has (5)
advised that the situation in Macau has returned to a degree
of normalcy in which covert inquiries can again be handled in
that colony with no more difficulty than before.

This is submitted for info of Bureau supervisors
handling Chinese investigative matters (5)
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WIGRE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
Land Breketed info
Classifi
dated 11/26/
9803 at
Bureau
211,326
(1- Foreign Liaison)
- Hong Kong(4)
DA/jw
(4)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

9/25/45
Classified by 5665-520/
Declassify on: DADR
REC 10
TO MAR 13 1967
EX-114

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approvtiof the FBI.

6JAR 21 1967 SECRET
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll. Savings Plan
NW 50953 DocId: 32199369 Page 3

OPTIONAL FOR NO. 10.
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
UNITED STATES GOV 5010-106 SECRET ED
NMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. Rosen CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR DATE: March 15, 1967
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
FROM R. I. Shroder IN THIS DOCUMENT. 1 Mr. Rosen
EXCEPT 1 Mr. Malley
FOR THE BRACKETS-
JM 6-25-97
SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA - Mr. Shroder
(CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) - Mr. Thompson
and INTERNAL SECURITY - VENEZUELA - Mr. Sullivan
KIDNAPING - Mr. Trotter
C.T.A.(4)
This relates to information received from CIA in-
dicating the possibility that the Communist Party of Venezuela
may attempt to kidnap the child of a CIA employee Thomas (5)
Keogh
priate dissemination has previously been made..
No investigation is being conducted by us and appro-
At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA, finger-
prints and photographs have been obtained and were furnished
to SA W. O. Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman of CIA on 3/10/67. This
material is being made part of this file for possible use in the
event of a kidnaping. Photographs and fingerprints are of the
following individuals: Joseph Edward Keogh; Thomas Patrick
Keogh, Jr.; Christina Margarita Keogh; Elizabeth Teresa/Keogh;
Francis Xavier Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, III, and Maria Rita
Keogh (S)
ACTION:

. A (5)
This matter has been coordinated with the identifi-
cation Division and it is recommended that this memo and
attachmontat be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB,
in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and
filed.
Enclosure ENCLOSURE ATTACHED. REC 33
ST-114

Fingerprints of followisuing detached
and filetan Selink Rev
MARIA RITA KEOSH
EDWARD JOSEPH KEOGH
CHRISTINA MARGARITA KEGEH
706
IRANSTH TERESA REDCH :: (5)
341 FRANCIS XAVIER TEOG
PATRICK KENGH JR.

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 4

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG NO. 27 5010-106
UNITED STATES GO RNMEN SECRET

Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
FROM D. J. Brennan, Jr. WIERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
request and is not for dissemi-
nel without the express approval of the FBI.
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
This document is prepared in response to your

SOURCE
In connection with developments in the case
captioned "NK 2264-S, (IS-R Bureau file 134
Director noted "I note more and more we are
about our domestic operations and always to our
I want this trend stopped. H." (A separate
being submitted concerning a new development in
mentioned case).
DATE: 3/15/67

1 Mr. DeLoach
1 Mr. SulQA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
1 Mr. BraRELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
1 Liaison Mr. PariNCTHIS DOCUMENT.JM
1 16-18-97

the
telling CIA
detriment.
memorandum is
the afore-

On 3/15/67, the Liaison Agent met with Richard
Helms, Director, CIA, and took the opportunity to review
the status of relations between FBI and CIA. It was
felt that this was an opportune time to do so in view of
the Director's concern as expressed above.

Helms stated that he personally was pleased with
relations between the two Agencies. He stated that sometimes
he is irked or disturbed when people outside and inside of
the Government ask the question "How are you getting along
with the FBI?" He indicated that this question is frequently
asked by members of Congress. Helms stated that he
religiously has followed a practice of lucidly and firmly
advising such people that relations are excellent. He
stated that he personally believed that this was true.

The Liaison Agent commented that working relations
are good, but there was an area which might not be getting
proper attention. The Agent stated that there was reason
to be concerned regarding effective coordination on those
cases which are of interest to both FBI and CIA because there
appeared to be developing an atmosphere where people in both
Agencies felt that there was now wide-open liberty to conduct
operations and activities of a joint nature. The Agent
stated that he wished to emphasize that such an atmosphere
cannot exist and that Mr. Hoover would never condone any
trend in this direction. The Agent commented that work in
this area had to be very efficiently coordinated and that we
in the Bureau were closely scrutinizing each situation as it
develops where both Agencies had an interest. The Agent
suggested that Mr. Helms might desire to alert appropriate
subordinates in the Agency on this point.

SJPrab REC 51 CONTINUED OVER
(6)
159 MAR 24 967 SECRET
NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 5

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)
FBI
Date: 3/17/67

Transmit the following in (Type in plaintext or code)
AIRTEL (Priority)
Via
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (05-80750) CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
FROM: SAC, WTO (66-3896) Jm 6-18-97

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES

On 3/15/67, PSI EMIL R. SVEILIS, the late night
desk editor, United Press International, Washington, D. C.
who has furnished reliable information in the past, said
that he wished to advise this office that he overheard
comments indicating that CIA had contributed at least one
million dollars to the National Council of Churches. He
also advised that he understood that the CIA maintains a
"safe house at the Airle House, Warrenton, Virginia." He
was questioned specifically about the source of the above
information and indicated that he believed that he heard
this information from individuals connected with the news
media but he could not recall the exact identity of these
individuals. He indicated that he got the impression
that this information was common knowledge in the news
field.
The Bureau may wish to advise CIA by appropriate
channels concerning the information that the CIA had
allegedly contributed money to the National Council of
Churches and maintains a "safe house" at Warrenton,
Virginia. This information was not put in LHM form
because of its general character and because the PSI
was unable to recall his source of this information
or when the information came to his attention.
The PSI requested that his identity be protected.
2 - Bureau
WTO (1-134-7249 Sub A)
PAT:mfd
(5)
REC-35
(SVEILIS)
Approved: Sent
Special Agent in Charge
NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 6

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY, 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27 5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT CONFIDENTIAL

Memorandum

TO MR. J. P. MOHR DATE: 3/24/67

FROM MR. I. W. CONRAD

SUBJECT REQUEST FOR TOUR OF LABORATORY
BY TECHNICAL PERSONNEL OF
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

Mr. Lon Thomas, Document Examiner for CIA, called this afternoon
to inquire if a tour could be arranged through the FBI Laboratory for himself
and two of his co-workers, Mr. Joseph Hall and Stanley Schultz. They have
no specific problems, but merely wish to visit our facilities briefly.
Accordingly, tentative arrangements have been made for the requested tour at
1p.m., March 29, 1967.

ACTION: UNLESS advised to the contrary, the tour will be conducted as requested.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLU
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (JFK)
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
1-Mr. Wick (Att: Tour Room)
1-Mr. W. C. Sullivan (Att: Mr. S. Papich)
1-Mr. Conrad
(4) IWC:dmg EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
JM 6-25-97

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
without the express approval of the FBI
59 APR 101967

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 7
CONFIDENTIAL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10. CONFIDENTIAL
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum
TO Mr. D. J. Brennan, DATE: 4/4/67

FROM W. O. Cregar

SUBJECT CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
ALIEN INTERVIEW REQUESTS

Re memorandum Cotter to Sullivan dated 3/28/67,
which instructed the Liaison Agent to advise appropriate
CIA representatives of the change in handling alien inter-
view requests at the Bureau.

On 3/31/67, the Liaison Agent advised (Mr. Leo
Dunn of the change in handling alien interview requests
at FBI Headquarters. (Dunn was advised that the overall
coordination for handling these requests would be handled
by the Bureau's Name Check Section under the coordination
of Special Agent J. W. Brown.

Inasmuch as CIA occasionally makes a telephonic
request when expedite matters are involved, the Liaison
Agent obtained the names of Eugene Young and Becky Vaughn
as the persons who would call Special Agent Brown in the
event an expedite matter is involved. CIA is well aware
that the use of this telephonic request should be held to
a minimum and used only at times when time is of the
essence and the matter is of sufficient importance to
deviate from the normal request procedures.

ACTION:
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
(C)

The above is directed to the Name Check Section
for their information and attention.

1- Mr. Scatterday (J.W. Brown)
1 - Mr. Cotter 9/25/45
1- Liaison Classified by 566850/0
1 Mr. Papich Declassify on: OADR
1 Mr. Cregar

WOC:rab

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings bu
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI

56APR 171967 CONFIDENTIA
NAMECHECK

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 8