Date : 04/24/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10076
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3267-368

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, LA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 11/02/62
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : JRO, CAR RENTAL, HERTZ CORP, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/20/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318 Docld:34489857 Page 1
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
NOV 2 1962
TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson
Mr. Belmont
Mr. Mohr
Mr. Casper
Mr. Callahan
Mr. Conrad
Mr. DaLoach
Mr. Evans
Mr. Gale
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Tavel
Mr. Trotter
Tele. Room
Miss Holmes
Miss Gandy

URGENT 11-2-62 8-29 PM MB
TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3267/
1130
FROM SAC, LOS ANGELES /92-/ 2P
JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT DASH C ADVISED ROSSELLI AT THE FRIAR-S
CLUB AFTERNOON NOVEMBER ONE LAST. DURING AFTERNOON NAME OF
PAT O-MALLEY, WHO IS ALLEGEDLY AFFILIATED WITH VENDING MACHINE
OPERATIONS IN CHICAGO AREA, WAS MENTIONED AND ROSSELLI STATED
THAT HE KNEW EVERYONE IN THE RACKETS IN CHICAGO BUT THAT HE NEVER
HEARD OF O-MALLEY. ROSSELLI ALSO SAID THAT IN LAS VEGAS QUOTED
ODDS ARE EIGHT TO FIVE THAT PAT BROWN WILL WIN OVER NIXON IN THE
RACE FOR GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA. ROSSELLI THEN ADDED THAT HE
WAS BETTING ON BROWN TO WIN BUT HE WAS GOING TO VOTE FOR
NIXON. IN THIS REGARD IT IS NOTED THAT ROSSELLI IS NOT A 92-3267-368
ΕΧ. - 120
REC-43
REGISTERED VOTER IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY AND BECAUSE OF HIS CONVICTION
25 NOV 5 1962
IN FORTY THREE IS NOT ENTITLED TO VOTE.

NEIGHBORHOOD SOURCES ADVISE ROSSELLI STILL IN LOS ANGELES.

HERTZ CORP, BEVERLY HILTON HOTEL STATION, ADVISED ROSSELLI
STILL HAS POSSESSION OF RENTAL CAR WHICH HE STATED HE WOULD RETURN
END PAGE ONE
54 NOV 8 1962 01531

NW 78318 Docld:34489857 Page 2
