JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/11/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10180
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-646

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 12/03/1962
PAGES: 39
SUBJECTS: LST, ASSOC, ACT, TELCAL, TRA, GAMBLING
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/13/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DEA
COMMENTS:

VNW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 1 22

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
TAMPA TAMPA 12/3/62 10/25-11/27/62
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
dh
SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., Aka SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE
CHARACTER OF CASE
AR

REFERENCE
Tampa report SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE 9/24/62
Miami teletype to Bureau 11/8/62
Legat, Mexico City, letter to Director 11/7/62
Miami teletype to Bureau 11/23/62 entitled "JOSEPH
ANTHONY INDELICATO, Aka, AR"

ENCLOSURE
To the Bureau
P-
Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum
characterizing informants

LEADS
ATLANTA

APPROVED SPECIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
IN CHARGE
COPIES MADE:
(3) Bureau (92-2781) (Ene-2) 92-2781-646 REC-41
2 - USA, Miami 8 DEC 7 1962
(Attn. WILLIAM KENNEY)
2 - Atlanta
2 - Cincinnati
2 - Jacksonville (92-7)
2 - Miami (92-88)
2 - New York (92-846)
3 - Tampa (92-1)
Dissemination Record of Attached Report
Agency Notations
Request Recd.
Date Fwd.
How Fwd.
By
58 DEC 1902

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 2

TP 92-1

AT ATLANTA, GA.
Will identify subscribers to telephone MU 8-1682
and PO 7-0281 called 7/14/62 from Columbia Liquor Store
Annex and thereafter conduct inquiry if deemed appropriate.

CINCINNATI
AT CINCINNATI, OHIO
Will identify subscribers to telephone 821-4731
called July 14, 1962, from Columbia Restaurant Liquor Store
Annex and thereafter discreetly establish connection if any
with subject or JAMES C. LONGO.

JACKSONVILLE
AT JACKSONVILLE, FLA. Grand Jury [JFK Law 10(a)2]
1. Will remain alert for any and all information
concerning subject noting the United States Department of
Justice Attorney attempts

2. Will identify subscribers to EL 6-4167 called
4/26/62 and CE 6-0935 called 7/30/62 from the Columbia
Restaurant Liquor Store Annex at Leesburg, Florida.

3. Identify subscriber to 787-4233 called 4/10/62
from Garcia Instant Service Station relative to subject's
association if any with subscriber.

MIAMI
AT MIAMI, FLA.
1. Will intensify coverage of subject's residence
and his activities, not only in regards to issuance of a

but to obtain positive evidence in rela-
tionship to slot machines and other gambling equipment to
go aboard Wappen Von Hamburg, alleged by Miami informant
in the case entitled "JOSEPH ANTHONY INDELICATO, Aka, AR",
Miami file 92-404.

- COVER PAGE B - 1
922781-646
NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 3

TP 92-1

2. Will conduct all possible investigation with
use of highly confidential Bureau techniques to establish
whether subject has any connection with the slot machines
or gambling equipment that was aboard the 'Orange Sun".

3. Will intensify efforts to establish highly
confidential Bureau coverage at subject's residence.*

4. Will provide Bureau with results of investigation
of subject and LARRY DE JOSEPH's efforts to operate in Guatemala
noting these results as instructed by the Bureau should be
furnished to the Bureau in form suitable for dissemination.

5. Will identify subscribers:

FR 1-8579, called 6/26/62

НІ 1-8579, called 4/19/62

ΗΙ 5-1551, called 4/2/62
(all from CONIGLIO residence)

FR 1-8579, called 3/23/62, 5/5/62,
7/16/62, 8/23/62
(all from FRANCES CACCIATORE
residence, noting same number
called 6/26/62 from CONIGLIO)

FR 1-3561, called 6/6/62, 9/17/62

ΝΕ 3-3872, called 6/11/62

FR 3-1821, called 6/18/62, 7/6/62,
7/14/62, 8/6/62

JE 8-5968, called 7/3/62

6. Identify subscriber to FR 4-2906, noting this
is the alleged girlfriend, telephone of SIDNEY HOROWITZ, and
thereafter consider exploitation, noting HOROWITZ hangs out
reportedly at Sunny's Restaurant, Miami Beach, Florida,
and has been observed to visit subject's residence in
Miami.

- COVER PAGE C -
NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 4

ΤΡ 92-1
:
AT KEY WEST, FLA.
Identify subscriber to telephone CY 4-1081 called
7/6/62 from Columbia Liquor Store Annex noting there has
been previous allegations of connections in Key West and
Tampa.

NEW YORK
AT BROOKLYN, N.Y.
Identify subscriber to telephone 212, SH 8-7877
called 7/6/62 from Columbia Restaurant Liquor Store Annex
which is hangout for subject's alleged body guard, JAMES
C. LONGO.

AT NEW YORK CITY
Identify subscriber to telephone 212, MU 3-3540
called 8/17/62 from Columbia Restaurant Liquor Store Annex
and thereafter conduct appropriate inquiry of above numbers
establishing subject's connection, if any.

TAMPA
AT BROOKSVILLE, FLA.
Identify subscriber to telephone 796-3222 called
7/6/62 from CONIGLIO residence.

AT DADE CITY, FLA.
Identify subscriber to telephone 567-6125 called
4/4/62 from unlisted telephone at Garcia Instant Service
Station.

AT FORT MYERS, FLA.
Identify subscriber to felephone ED 7-6661 called
from Garcia Instant Service Station on 7/30/62 and thereafter
establish what connection they may have with the subject
or his body guard.

AT ORLANDO, FLA.
1. Identity subscriber to telephone GA 5-2611

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 5
- COVER PAGE D

ΤΡ 92-1
called 4/12/62; to telephone GA 3-7291, called 4/30/62,
and GA 5-2661, called 4/30/62, all from Garcia Instant
Service Station.

2. Will maintain close liaison with USDC
officials at Orlando on a daily basis so as to be in a
position to know of the activities of the subject in rela-
tionship to Grand Jury [JFK Law 10(a)2]

3. Will consider establishment of highly confi-
dential Bureau coverage on subject should subject remain in
the Orlando area or be in contact with any individuals while
there

4
AT ST. PETERSBURG, FLA.
1. Identify subscriber to telephone 361-1011
called 6/2/62 and 6/30/62 from residence of FRANK CONIGLIO
noting same number called 7/5/62 from Columbia Liquor Store
Annex.

2. Identify subscriber to telephone 7-1197 called
7/19/62 from Garcia Instant Service and same number called
from Columbia Restaurant 9/11/62.

3. Identify subscriber to telephone 361-1561 called
from subject's residence 4/18/62, 5/23/62 and 7/9/62.

Identify subscriber to telephone 360-6731 called
4.
6/29/62 and 7/6/62.

5. Identify subscriber to telephone 5-3187 called
9/18/62 from Columbia Liquor Store Annex.

AT TAMPA, FLA.
1. Will report results of investigation at Cape

COVER PAGE E
-
NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 6 92-2781-646

ΤΡ 92-1
Haze and Lehigh Acres, Florida.

2. Will maintain contact with CIS, PCIS, neighbors
of subject, as well as sources in contact with subject's
associates.

3. Will report results of investigation still
outstanding, Legat, Mexico City, who advised by referenced
letter that further inquiry is being made at Guatemala City,
Guatemala.

4. Will continue efforts to further highly confi-
dential Bureau coverage on subject's close associates.
ADMINISTRATIVE Grand Jury [JFK Law 10(a)2]

The Bureau has been advised that Assistant Attorney
General, Organized Crime and Racketeering Section, Department
of Justice, Miami, WILLIAM KENNEY, while in Tampa on 11/9/62
advised he and the USA EDWARD F. BOARDMAN, MDF, were con-
sidering

Miami Office advised the Bureau by referenced teletype
in the case of JOSEPH ANTHONY INDELICATO, Aka, AR, Miami
file 92-404, that informant information had been received
that JOSEPH INDELICATO and RUBY STRAUSS may operate gambling
ship in the Miami area during the coming winter season.
Panamanian motor vessel, "Orange Sun", and German ship
Wappan Von Hamburg" aka "Empress of Bahama", both operating
out of Miami, were considered logical vessels to be used
for this purpose. The Port Director, Miami, advised "Orange
Sun" apparently is making regular scheduled runs, but to
be chartered for convention groups.

Miami further advised JOHN CASEBOLT, Immigration
Official, was aboard "Orange Sun" at West Palm Beach,
Florida, Nov. 7, 1962, and observed approximately 50 slot
machines covered and locked. He stated it took conven-
tioneers of Florida Automobile Dealers Association from
West Palm Beach to West End and returned during the period
November 4 through 7, 1962.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 7
- COVER PAGE F - 92-2781-646

TP 92-1
Information was further developed by an informant
aboard "Wappan Von Hamburg" during the voyage of November 20,
1962, to Nassau and return, he learned 100 slot machines,
plus faro table and other gambling equipment, to be delivered
to ship within 30 days. Informant states "the doctor", or
"the general", is to provide this gambling equipment. Identity
of "the doctor" closely guarded aboard ship, but informant
was told in confidence "the doctor" is "SANTOS from Tampa,
Florida".

The Miami Office further advised due to the
possibility that SANTOS was identical with subject, informanto
was instructed to further identify and obtain details regarding
delivery of gambling equipment.

The Houston Office indices were negative regarding
a VICTOR S. GUFFRIS as mentioned in the details of the
report.

Information from the records of the General Telephone
Company of Florida, Tampa, Florida, was made available to
IC HENRY I. MC INTURFF on dates indicated on the FD-302s
by Mr. GEORGE CARNES, Commercial Manager.

INFORMANTS

TP T-1 is CHARLES CUCCIA, PCI, Miami.

TP T-2 is PETER GIAMPAPA, PCI, Miami.

TP T-3 is MM 840-c.

TP T-4 is MM 797-PC.

TP T-5 is MM 845-C*.

TP T-6 is TP 41-С.
:
TP T-7 is DOMINICK LA ROCA, PCI.

TP T-8 is TP 79-C*.

TP T-9 is CESAR MARIO CAPAZ, PCI.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 8
COVER PAGE G
- 92-2781-646

TP 92-1

TP T-10 is ROLANDO RODRIGUEZ, PCI.

TP T-11 is TP 80-C*.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 9
1
COVER PAGE H*
-- 92-2781-646

FD-204
FD-204 (Mev. 3-3-551
LATED STATES DEPARTMENT OI USTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
:
Copy to: 1 - USA, Miami

Report of: SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE Office: TAMPA
Date: 12/3/62
Field Office File #: 92-1 Bureau File #: 92-2781

Title: SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis: Telephone toll calls from residence of EVARISTO GARCIA
VIDAL, Miami, to Tampa, Florida, identified as to
residences of FRANK CONIGLIO, 610 Luzon, Mrs. FRANCIS
CACCIATORE, 1915 Carmen. Call to GARCIA Instant Service
Station, same identified as place where subject's family
has cars serviced in the past. Also, call to subject's
Tampa residence, 2505 Bristol. Toll calls obtained
for past six months period from above locations and
leads set out to identify connections. Subject's where-
abouts unrecorded at Miami or Tampa during latter Octo-
ber and subject reported on November 6, 1962, at
Columbia, Restaurant, Tampa, and at office of Tampa
Attorney PAT WHITAKER, 308 Tampa Street. Subject and
wife thereafter reported at Miami residence November 7,
1962, and rent paid for month of November. Subject
observed in Miami in contact with STEFANO ANTHONY
RANDAZZO and at Sonny's Restaurant, Miami Beach.
Subjects past associate HARLAN BLACKBURN arrested on
IRS case, Orlando, and subject may be subpoenaed before
FGJ, Orlando, 12/10/62 as to his connections with
BLACKBURN and general gambling in central Florida.
Car used by subject in Miami observed Miami International
Airport 11/23/62. No further action reported on ALBERT
ANASTASIA murder case, NYC. Telephone toll calls
obtained from telephone available to subject's asso-
ciate JAMES C. LONGO and set out to determine connections.
SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS DUE
TO HIS PAST ASSOCIATIONS IN CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES.

- P -
DETAILS
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 10

ΤΡ 92-1

I. POSSIBLE TELEPHONE CONTACTS OF SUBJECT AND ASSOCIATES

It has previously been reported by the Miami Office
that subject was probably in contact with EVARISTO GARCIA
VIDAL, a Cuban National, who is residing at 4001 S.W. 5th
Street, Miami, Florida, with telephone 445-3115, and the
telephone toll calls from such telephone were previously
set out with the exception of the following information:

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 11
!
-
2-

/
FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)
CEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT
Date November 8, 1962

The records of the Southern Bell Telephone and
Telegraph Company were reviewed and the following information
obtained for telephone number 445-3115.

The number is listed to RITA GARCIA, 4001 S. W.
"
5th Street, Miami, Florida, and billed to same. The
telephone was connected on February 16, 1962. GARCIA has
no employment. She has a large bank account at the First
National Bank, FR 7-3411. Mr. SIEBERT handles her account.
ELIANA ELLANA DE MARCOS (niece), FR 1-8579, was listed as a
reference. Credit rating with the telephone company was
listed as "D".- $50 deposit. GARCIA's husband is still1
in Cuba. GARCIA is very old. This is a published number.

The above records are confidential and can only
be obtained through the issuance of a subpoena duces tecum,
which should be directed to Mr. PRESTON M. COLLINS, South
Florida Manager, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
Company, Miami, Florida, or his authorized representative.

3
On 11/7/62 at Coral Gables, Florida File # Miami 92-88

by IC E. CLEON GLAZE:mgw Date dictated 11/7/62

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 12

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)
CFEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAN
Date November 8, 1962

The records of the Southern Bell Telephone and
Telegraph Company were reviewed and the following long
distance calls were obtained for telephone number 445-3115,
subscribed to by RITA GARCIA.

Date City Number Other Data
9/24 Tampa, Fla. 259-2393 14 min.

The above records are confidential and can only be
issued through the issuance of a subpoena duces tecum which
should be directed to Mr. PRESTON M. COLLINS, South Florida
Manager, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company,
Miami, Florida, or his authorized representative.

4
On 11/7/62 at Coral Gables, Florida File # Miami 92-88

by ICE. CLEON GLAZE:mgw Date dictated 11/7/62

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 13

TP 92-1

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA
RE: 259-2393
This number is presumably a GARCIA call on July 26,
1962, to Miami, Florida, from this number It is also noted
that this number in Tampa was called again on September 24,
1962, as set forth above.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 14
5-
i

I
FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT
Date 10/31/62

1
Records of the General Telephone Company of Florida
reveal the below listed telephone toll calls have been charged
to telephone number 259-2393, which is subscribed to by
FRANK CONIGLIO of 610 Luzon:

Billing Date July 16, 1962
6/23/62 to St. Petersburg, 361-1011, a day station 3 minute
call

6/26/62 to Miami, FR 1-8579, a night station 8 minute call

6/30/62 to St. Petersburg, 361-1011, a day station 3 minute
call

7/6/62 to Brooksville, 796-3222, a night station 3 minute
call

Billing Date May 16, 1962
4/19/62 to Miami, FR 1-8579, a night station 5 minute call

Billing Date April 16, 1962
4/2/62 to Miami HI 5-1551, a day person to person 4 minute
call

Records reflect no toll calls on billing dates
of June 16, 1962, August 16, 1962, and September 16, 1962.

Information from the files of the General Telephone
Company of Florida should only be made public after proper
issuance of a subpoena duces tecum which should be directed
to Mr. CARL D. BROREIN, JR., operating vice president of
the General Telephone Company of Florida, or his authorized
representative.

The telephone company was not requested to retain
the toll records described above and they will normally
be destroyed, after a period of six months.

- 6 -
On 10/25/62 at Tampa, Florida File TP 92-1

by IC HENRY E. MC INTURFF: dh Date dictated 10/29/62

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 15
!

TP 92-1

AT TAMPA, FLORI DA
RE:
278-2574
This number was called on July 24, 1962, apparently
to a JOSEPH GARCIA. The 1962 Tampa, Florida City Directory
lists JOSEPH A. GARCIA, wife ROSE M., as residing 507 Ellicott,
as at Garcia's, Instant Service and as a vice president,
Central Bank of Tampa.

The Directory lists Garcia's Instant Service to
JOE A. GARCIA, East Broadway, corner of 24th, with telephones
248-2113 and 248-2114.
}
NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 16
-7-

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)
1
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Date 10/31/62

Records of the General Telephone Company of
Florida reveal that the below listed telephone toll calls
have been charged to telephone number 248-2574, which
is an unlisted number subscribed to by Garcia's Instant
Service, 24th Street and East Broadway, Tampa:

Billing Date May 6, 1962
4/4/62 to Dade City, Florida, 567-6125, a day person to
person 3 minute call

4/10/62 to Leesburg, Florida, 787-4233, a day person to
person 3 minute call

4/12/62 to Orlando, Florida, GA 5-2661, a day person to
person 4 minute call.

4/26/62 to Jacksonville, Florida, EL 6-4167, a day station
4 minute call

4/30/62 to Orlando, Florida, F 437291, a day person to
person 3 minute call

4/30/62 to Orlando, Florida, GA 5-2661, a day person to
person 3 minute call

Billing Date August 6, 1962
7/19/62 to St. Petersburg, Florida, 7-1197

7/30/62 to Jacksonville, Florida, EL-6-0935

7/30/62 to Fort Myers, Florida, ED 7-6661

There were no toll charges on the bills for
the following billing dates:

June 6, 1962;
July 6, 1962;
September 6, 1962; and
October 6, 1962

-8-
On 10/23/62 at Tampa, Florida File# TP-92-1

by IC HENRY E. MC INTURFF: dh Date dictated 10/29/62

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 17
!

TP 92-1
2
Information from the files of the General Telephone
Company of Florida should only be made public after proper
issuance of a subpoena duces tecum which should be directed
to Mr. CARL D. BROREIN, JR., operating vice president of
the General Telephone Company of Florida, or his authorized
representative.

The telephone company was not requested to retain
the toll records described above and they will normally
be destroyed after a period of six months.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 18
-
9-

TP 92-1

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA
RE: 255-2175
This telephone number as recorded called previously
from the GARCIA residence, Miami, Florida, on September 7, 10,
1962, apparently to Mrs. FRANCES CACCIATORE.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 19
10

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATY
Date 10/31/62

1
Records of the General Telephone Company of Florida
reveal below listed telephone toll calls have been charged
to telephone number 255-2175, which is listed to FRANCES
CACCIATORE of 1915 Carmen:

Billing Date April 16, 1962
3/23/62 to Miami, Florida, FR 1-8579, a day station call

Billing Date May 16, 1962
5/5/62 to Miami, Florida, FR 1-8579, a night station call

There were no toll charges made on billing dates
of June 16, 1962 and July 16, 1962.

Billing Date August 16, 1962
7/16/62 to Miami, Florida, FR 1-8579, a night station call

Billing Date September 16, 1962
8/23/62 to Miami, Florida, FR 1-8579, a night station call

9/3/62, collect call from Miami, Florida, a day person
to person call

Information from the files of the General Telephone
Company of Florida should only be made public after proper
issuance of a subpoena duces tecum which should be directed
to Mr. CARL D. BROREIN, JR., operating vice president,
General Telephone Company of Florida, or his authorized
representative.

The telephone company was not requested to retain
the toll call records described above and they will normally
be destroyed after a period of six months.

- 11 -
File # TP 92-1
On 10/26/62 at Tampa, Florida

by IC HENRY E. MC INTURFF:dh Date dictated 10/29/62

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 20

TP 92-1

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA
RE: 876-2207
:
This number was called from the GARCIA residence
in Miami on September 16, 1962, it being noted it is the
unlisted telephone at 2505 Bristol, where subject's daughter
SARA ANN TRAFFICANTE resides.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 21
-
12-

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)
1
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT
10/31/62
Date
Records of the General Telephone Company of
Florida reveal that the below listed telephone toll calls
have been charged to telephone number 876-2207, which
is an unlisted number subscribed to by SANTO TRAFFICANTE
of 2505 Bristol:

Billing Date May 11, 1962
4/1/62, collect call from Gainesville, Florida, a night
station call

4/8/62, collect call from Gainesville, Florida, a night
station call

4/11/62 to Gainesville, FR 2-9236, a day person to person
call
1
4/16/62 to Gainesville, FR 2-9236, a day person to person
call

4/18/62 to St. Petersburg, 361-1561, a day station call

4/19/62 to Louisville, Kentucky, 366-5594, a night station
call

4/29/62, collect call from Gainesville, Florida, FR 2-9236,
a night person to person call

5/9/62 to Gainesville, FR 2-9236, a night person to person call
Billing Date June 11, 1962
5/2/62, collect call from Gainesville, Florida, a night
station call
:..
5/13/62 to Gainesville, FR 6-7498, a night person to person
call

5/17/62 to Gainesville, FR 2-9236, a day person to person
call

5/23/62, collect call from Gainesville, Florida, a night
station call

- 13 -
On 10/25/62at Tampa, Florida File # TP 92-1

by IC HENRY E. MC INTURFF: dh 10/29/62
Date dictated

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 22

TP 92-1
2
5/23/62 to St. Petersburg, 361-1561, a day station call

5/30/62 to Cape Haze, Florida, MY 7-2991, a night station
call

6/4/62 to Gainesville, FR 2-9236, a night person to person
call

Billing Date July 11, 1962
6/29/62 to St. Petersburg, 360-6731, a day station call

7/6/62 to St. Petersburg, 360-6731, a day station call

Billing Date August 11, 1962
7/9/62 to Louisville, Kentucky, 585-4400, a day person
to person call

7/9/62 to St. Petersburg, 361-1561, a day station call

7/9/62 to St. Petersburg, 361-1561, a day station call

7/9/62, collect call from St. Petersburg, Florida, a day
station call

7/9/62, collect call from St. Petersburg, Florida, a day
person to person call

7/18/62 to Wildwood, Florida, 748-4723, a day station
call

7/18/62 to Bushnell, Florida, SY 3-2071, a day person
to person call

7/18/62 to Bushnell, Florida, SY 3-2133, a day station
call

On the billing date of September 11, 1962, there
were no toll charges.

Billing Date October 11, 1962
9/11/62 to North Dade, Florida, WI 5-8812, a day station
call

9/27/62, collect call from Atlanta, Georgia, a night station
call

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 23
-
14
-

TP 92-1
3
10/1/62 to Miami, Florida, PL 4-1912, a day station call

10/9/62 to Miami, Florida, PL 4-1912, a night station
call

Information from the files of the General Telephone
Company of Florida should only be made public after proper
issuance of a subpoena duces tecum which should be directed
tomMr. CARL D. BROREIN, JR., operating vice president of
the General Telephone Company of Florida, or his authorized
representative.

NW 88614 Docld:32290904 Page 24
-
15
-

ΤΡ 92-1