Date : 08/10/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10203-10482
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-207

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, PG
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 08/30/61
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : GM, SMO, ASSOC, RAID, WARRANT, SAMS, WILLIAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC A/T

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318
Docld:34489455 Page 1

AIRTEL 8/31/61

TO: SAC, Pittsburgh (92-236)

FROM: Director, FBI (92-2914) - 207
GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka. EX-107
AR

Reurtel 8/30/61.

According to retel an informant advised that gamblers
in the New Kensington area are saying that since Willie Sams is
never caught in Internal Revenue Service raids he either has a'
highly placed tipster in the Pittsburgh Federal Building or he is
an informant for some Federal agency.

You should take immediate advantage of this information
and turn it to our benefit. You should certainly be able to use
this material as an aid in obtaining good information from Sams
and/or to disrupt his portion of the Mannarino racket empire.

RDC: rap (4)

MAILED 4
AUG 3 1 1961
COMM-FBI

64 SEP 17L 1961

NW 78318
DocId:34489455 Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
AUG 30 1961
TELETYPE

URGENT 8-30-61 7-08 PM EDST DLH
TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2914 92-2918
FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH 92-236 92-228
GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR, SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. ON
AUGUST THIRTY, INSTANT, PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C ADVISED WILLIAM
SAMS, WHO HAS BEEN HIDING TO AVOID SERVICE OF IRS WARRANT SINCE
NEW KENSINGTON, PA., RAID ON AUGUST TWENTYFOUR LAST, WILL RETURN
TO NEW KENSINGTON EVENING OF SEPTEMBER ONE NEXT. THIS INFORMATION
FURNISHED LOCALLY TO USM AND IRS, PITTSBURGH. INFORMANT STATED
GAMBLERS IN NEW KENSINGTON ARE GOSSIPING ABOUT FACT WILLIAM SAMS
IS NEVER COUGHT IN IRS RAIDS. THESE GAMBLERS ARE SPECULATING
THAT SAMS EICHER HAS A HIGHLY PLACED TIPSTER IN PITTSBURGH
FEDERAL BUILDING OR THAT SAMS IS AN INFORMANT OF SOME FEDERAL
AGENCY. BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.
END AND ACK PLS
7-10 PM OK FBI WA MSL

92-2914-207

17 SEP 1.1961

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 92-2918_

NW 78318
DocId:34489455 Page 3
