JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10081
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-85440-28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/11/1967
PAGES: 185
SUBJECTS: MAB, ASSOC, CUBAN EXILES, MIL ACT, ACA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: INC S/S, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1 32
NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 1

SECRET

PSI Elio Quintero (protect identity) (97-4313), 153 N.E.
44th Street, Miami, advised on 7/29/60 that he had been serving in
a liaison capacity with the MRR and prospective defectee pilots of
Cuban airlines. His operations were directed by Dr. Manuel Artime
Buesa, an ex-Lieutenant of the Cuban Revolutionary Army who now was
serving as Secretary General of the MRR. Quintero was in daily
telephonic contact with Salvador Aldereguia and Antonio Bascaro,
two members of the Cuban Revolutionary Army who were in exile in the
Dutch West Indies, and through Artime was attempting to arrange for
their admission into the US.

97-4313-3 p.3

Carlos Rodriguez, a Cuban national living in NYC as of
August, 1960, reportedly said that he was affiliated with the
"MRR Camilo Cienfuegos" and claimed to be in close contact with
the "real MRR" in Cuba. He said that Manuel Artime was not entirely
sound, but that the movement in Cuba now was well organized and
beginning to show signs of progress. (CIA, 9/1/60)

105-91331-1 p.2

[In July, 1960 there was dissension in the MRR leadership
which consisted of Ricardo Lorie, Higinio "Nino" Diaz, Antonio
Michel Yabor and Manuel Artime Buesa. Artime, who represented the
MRR on the FRD Executive Committee, reportedly was aligned with the
political group of Manuel Antonio de Varona, Aurelio Sanchez Arango
and Justo Carrillo. The dissident group, Lorie, Diaz and Yabor,
who were not accepted by the FRD, aligned themselves with the
Liberation Alliance which was formed in Miami on 8/7/60, and claimed
they were the true MRR organization. A paid political announcement
in the 8/2/60 issue of the "Diario Las Americas" stated that Jose
Ignacio Rasco Bermudez, a secretary of the FRD Executive Committee,
certified that the only MRR duly accredited representative of that
organization to the FRD was Manuel Artime. The National Board of
the MRR in Cuba, backed by the FRD, reportedly approved the reorgan-
ization of the MRR and Artime's expulsion of Lorie, Diaz and Yabor
On 8/16/60, CIA, Miami (protect identity), advised that Artime and

SECRET -10-
(continued)

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 2

SECRET Rudolph Fernandez (protect identity), a cotton broker of
Atlanta, Georgia who was closely associated with Francisco Gualberto
Cajigas y Garcia Del Prado, Miami, Florida, civilian leader of the
Cuban Unity of Liberation (UCL) (105-88041), furnished information
to Miami Office Agents on 9/12/60. Cajigas had told Fernandez that
Father Medina, Rector of Villanueva University, Havana, arrived in
Miami from Havana, on 9/5/60, for the purpose of contacting
Cajigas and offering him the help and resources of the Catholic
Church in Cuba in his fight against Castro. Fernandez said that,
according to Cajigas, Father Medina advised that the Catholic Church
in Cuba was opposed to Manuel Antonio Varona of the FRD. Father
Medina also disclosed to Cajigas that Manuel Artime, one of the five
leaders of the FRD, had visited Medina and had confided that the
FRD was divided and unhappy.

105-88041-6 encl.p.5

Ramiro Loys (protect identity), a confidential source of
information, advised on 9/6/60 that he had been told by Carlos
Marquez Sterling that Antonio (Tony) Varona was coming to Washington,
DC on 9/16/60, where he planned to confer with officials of the
Department of State and CIA concerning the eventual unification of
the various anti-Castro groups then in existence. At that time,
Varona was to discuss what assistance this group might expect from
the US and he also would provide the identity of various anti-Castro
groups known to him. Among persons under consideration by Sterling,
Varona, and others, for inclusion in this unified organization was
Artime Buesa. According to Loys, Sterling had been a Cuban president-
ial aspirant, during the election of 1958 and Varona was a former
Cuban Senator now in exile in Miami, Florida.

109-584-1916

Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas (2-1622), 1900 S.W. 21st
Terrace, Miami, advised on 10/6/60 that through an intermediary
(not further identified) he had been in contact with Manuel Artime
Buesa, military leader and member of the FRD, and had offered to join
the FRD provided the FRD would manifest certain stipulations. (Date

SECRET -12-
(continued)

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 3

SECRET

Fray Balbino de Ferral of the Capuchinos Convent Plaza
de Jesus #2, Madrid, Spain, advised on 8/22/63 that he had been
deported from Cuba in September, 1961. Fray Balbino stated that he
was a member of the MRR, identified as a counterrevolutionary
group which was headed by Manuel Artimes, who was one of the leaders
of the 4/17/61 Bay of Pigs invasion (sic). Fray Balbino said that
he acted in a sort of liaison capacity between the MRR and other
counterrevolutionary groups.

105-111153-15

On 1/2/62, Philadelphia SOI Enrique Menocal (protect
identity) advised that the 30th of November Movement (105-92196) was
founded originally by Manuel Artime (date not indicated) and was
composed largely of Catholic students in Cuba. Menocal said that
November 30th was the date on which Huber Matos, former military
commander of Cameguey Province in Cuba, was arrested by Fidel Castro
and sentenced to prison for being a traitor to the Cuban Revolution.

105-92196-28 p.3

SI 105-92196-17 encl.p.1

The MRR, an underground movement formed in Cuba in mid-1959,
was composed primarily of three larger groups: (1) the ACU, under
Manuel F. Artime Buesa; (2) a military group under Major Ricardo
de la Lorie Valls; and (3) an air group, without planes, of 13
experienced pilots under Major Antonio Michel Yabor. The ACU was in
existence prior to the Castro regime as the Cuban Catholic University
(CACU) students organization. In November, 1959, under Artime's
leadership, the majority of the CACU membership joined with the
Rebel Army Officer group to become the MRR. In February, 1950, a
coordinated movement of anti-Castro exiles outside Cuba was formed
in Mexico and named the MRR. Artime and Lorie were joint heads of
this newly formed group. About the middle of 1960, Artime, who was
in the US, reportedly began to act without authority from the MRR
Directorate, which resulted in formation of the MRR splinter group,
(continued)

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 4
-21-
SECRET

(continued)

SECRET

Cuba since the ill-fated 4/17/61 Playa Giron invasion.

On 12/29/62, President John F. Kennedy visited the Orange
Bowl Stadium, Miami, where he reviewed the returned prisoners of
Brigade 2506. He was accompanied by Jose Miro Cardona and Manuel
Artime, both of whom were on the speakers' stand with President
Kennedy.

After Artime's return to the US, he used his influence with
the US Government to obtain an interview with President Kennedy in
Palm Beach, Florida. He was to continue as head of the MRR. Artime
made a good appearance, spoke English, and had charmed US Government
officials who were in charge of government policy between the US
and Cuba. He was extremely ambitious and would like to be the head
of the CRC and probably the future President of Cuba. (Higinio
"Nino" Diaz, supra, 1/4/63).

As a result of nationwide press, radio, and television
coverage of President Kennedy's 12/29/62 activities at the Orange
Bowl, which coverage prominently mentioned Artime's name, Artime
now was better known and his position in the anti-Fidel Castro
movement was greatly increased. Generally among Cuban exiles Artime
was considered young, immature, and highly ambitious, and many felt
that he considered the victim of his own publicity.

97-4133-57 p.1,3-5

The 1/6/63 issue of the "Miami Herald" carried an article
entitled "Rift Develops in Invasion Brigade; 100 Boycotted JFK Here."
This related to boycott by Cuban Brigade 2506 (105-117331) prisoners
of President Kennedy's 12/29/62 appearance at the Orange Bowl to
welcome the returned prisoners. The article stated that Enrique
Llaca, Jr., recently released from Castro's prisons, singled out
Manuel Artime and Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, head of the CRC, for
criticism, declaring they were using the Brigade for their personal
benefits. Both Artime and Miro Cardona denied this. The Brigade,
under the leadership of Artime and a joint chiefs of staff, had set
up headquarters in Miami.

SECRET -26-
(continued)

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 5

(continued)

SECRET

The 1/6/63 issue of the "Miami News", in an article
entitled "Brigade 2506 Meets Monday to Map Plans", set out the names
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the Brigade and quoted Artime as
stating: "We have fought only one battle and we are certain the
final battle is very near."

On 1/9/63, MM 492-S advised that 24 hours after being
received by President Kennedy at the Orange Bowl, the group headed
by Enrique Llaca Orbiz appeared on Channel 10 Television, Miami.
During their appearance they stated that they were opposed to the
CRC and to Manuel Artime, chief of the Brigade.

105-117331-1 encl.p.2,3,6,9

[In May, 1961 Fidel Castro offered to exchange a number of
Cuban prisoners taken during the 4/17/61 invasion attempt, for US
tractors and spare parts for same. Eliminated from the proposed
tractor exchange deal were the three leaders of the invasion
Manuel Artime, Jose San Roman and Rafael Bolivar Fuentes. The
Cuban Government proposed the exchange of Artime for Francisco
"The Hook" Molina, a pro-Castro Cuban who had been convicted of
second-degree murder in NYC. However, this proposed exchange failed
to materialize and in late March early April 1962, in Havana, Cuba,
the prisoners were tried before a 5-man military tribunal and con-
victed. The verdict involved heavy ransoms with the ransom for
Artime set at $500,000. Subsequently, the US carried out negotiations
for release of the prisoners and on 12/23-24/62 they all were air-
lifted to Miami. Artime, the civil representative of the CRC, re-
portedly had emerged as a focal figure in the exile community. At
a press conference on 12/25/62, he emphasized that all the returned
prisoners regarded themselves as the "troops of the Revolutionary
Council." Artime declined to discuss the military aspects of the
abortive invasion. He said that he and the other ransomed prisoners
were determined to return to Cuba. As of 1/21/63, INS, Miami, was
beginning to process the prisoners. CIA, Miami, had contact with
Brigade 2506 leaders Artime, Jose Perez San Roman and Eneido Oliva
as sources of information to keep abreast of Brigade 2506 moods
and desires, and not as "controlled agents"

SECRET -27-
NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 6

(continued)

SECRET

publicize the movement on 4/11/63. He appeared to have the backing
of Manuel Artime, who had been seen with Rivero quite frequently
during the past week (place not indicated), and possibly that of
Jose Miro Cardona, president of the CRC. Artime dealt with Miro
through Carlos Pelaez Cossio, a former senator under Gomez and
Batista (sic) and a personal confidant of both Miro and Artime

This reference indicated that foregoing information was
acquired on 4/10/63 in the US (place not given)

105-117331-7 p.2

Miami Office report dated 4/30/63, set out information
indicating that during January, 1963, some MRR (97-4133) functionaries
participated in unity discussions with other Cuban revolutionary
organizations. The MRR problem was complicated by the recent return
to the US from imprisonment in Cuba, of Manuel Artime Buesa, MRR
leader who had participated in the April, 1961 invasion attempt.
In late January, 1963, Jose Miro Cardona, head of the CRC, tried to
overthrow the MRR leadership of Artime. On 2/22/63, at a meeting
held by the Enrique Oviedo Leon faction of the MRR (place not indi-
cated), Artime was expelled and Oviedo was named MRR Secretary
General. A document (quoted) entitled "Removal and Expulsion of
Dr. Manuel Artime Buesa" was made available by MM 492-S. On 4/23/63,
Manuel Villamanan (protect identity), Cuban exile in Miami, said
that Artime still was undisputed head of the MRR; that about 75% of
Brigade 2506 was sympathetic with the MRR; that Erneido Oliva of
Brigade 2506 was very close to Artime and in agreement with Artime on both
the military and political aspects of the fight against communism in
Cuba; and that the MRR was not making clandestine trips to Cuba at
that time. (Details set out).

97-4133-60 p.1-3,5-8

The following references relate to an alleged aerial strike
over Habana, Cuba, during the night of 4/25/63, in which action Alexander
Irwin Rorke, Jr. (97-4623) reportedly was involved. Frank Fiorini,

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 8
SECRET
-32-
(continued)

(continued)

SECRET

against Artime and considered him a demagogue.

109-584-3822 p.1-6

SI 105-97873-18 encl.p.5
(Felipe Vidal Santiago,
12/17/63).

It was reported on 1/22/64 that no further conversations
between former Nicaraguan President Luis Somoza and former Cuban
President Carlos Prio Socarras were known to have taken place con-
cerning "Operacion Centroamericana"*. This project continued to be
at a standstill and activities of Manuel Artime, MRR leader, apparently
were not connected with it, although no open break with Prio had been
made. Artime was slowly strengthening and training a group of exiles
in Nicaragua. The MRP (105-92704) claimed that Artime was receiving
aid from the Nicaraguan Government and from the US.

The Alliance of MRP Alpha 66 SFNE would consider joining
forces with Artime when his organization had developed sufficient
strength to make an attack on Cuba feasible.

*See CIA report, dated 11/1/63
(105-123568-8)

PSI Margot Pena (protect identity), a Cuban exile, advised
on 1/24/64 that supporters of Manuel Antonio de Varona, head of the
CRC (105-107224), and of Jose Miro Cardona, would oppose Manuel
Artime, head of the MRR, should Artime return to Cuba as head of an
anti-Castro force. Pena explained that Varona and Miro accused Artime
of having betrayed them while he was in the training camp in Guatemala

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 9
SECRET-53-
(continued)

followers reportedly
Miami report dated 3/19/64, set out activities of Manuel
Artime Buesa as head of the MRR. This included Artime's travels
between the US and Nicaragua and Costa Rica; his recruiting activities
in behalf of his anti-Castro training program and including a number
of Cuban exiles recruited out of the US Army for service with his
group; the alleged grand style of living of Artime and his follo
and his operation of training camps in Nicaragua where he reporte
had more than five million dollars worth of military equipment. It
was alleged that Artime was being officially sponsored and subsidized
and that he made a living out of the revolution. In early 1964, when
the Pro-Referendum Committee was polling the Cuban exiles for a Cuban
referendum election to be held in May, Artime was reported to be
against this referendum. Reference also set out information reported
on 2/12/64 that Adelaida Padron Cruz, 881 N.E. 71st Street, Miami,
continued to be Artime's mistress and that this residence was used
by him for secret meetings.

109-584-3884 p.1,7-10,13,18

Bernardo G. De Torres (105-124552), a Cuban exile, 1440
S.W. 4th Street, Miami, advised on 4/3/64 that he was one of the
ransomed prisoners of the April, 1961 Cuban invasion and had returned
to the US on 12/24/62. He stated that the support of the US to the
Cuban invasion and its support to the movement of Cuban exile leader
Manuel Artime in Central America, were two events which precluded
prosecution of Cuban exiles for violation of neutrality. DeTorres
said it was general information among Cuban exiles in Miami that
Artime and members of his organization, the MRR, were receiving US
assistance in some manner in connection with the establishment of
training camps in Central America.

105-124552-3 encl.p.9

Bureau memo dated 4/9/64, advised that on 4/8/64, Henryr
Hecksher of CIA (62-80750) furnished information on a strictly
confidential basis, requesting that this information not be disseminated
outside the Bureau. This pertained to the involvement in anti-Castro

-58-
(continued)
NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 10

SECRET

As of 3/10/64, the MRR (97-4133) in the San Francisco,
Calif. area, was conducting a recruitment program for a group to
start military training within the next 2 months at an unknown
location under the leadership of Manuel Artime. (Carolina Salazar
protect identity - MRR official and PSI under development)

As of 4/20/64, the Northern California MRR membership
had conducted a similar program. No further move was to be made
until word was received from Artime, following which recruits
probably would proceed to Miami for further instructions. It was
the general feeling in MRR that the US Government was supporting
Artime. (Jose Valdez protect identity - MRR delegate).

97-4133-103 encl.p.1,2

The Newark Office, on 4/16/64, reported that SOI Jose
Manuel Macias (protect identity) advised on 4/1/64 that a couple
of days previously, several members of Cuban Brigade 2506 who had
visited Washington, DC and Miami, Florida, returned to the New York
area. While in Miami they tried to see Manuel Artime but he was in
Central America. Instead, they saw Antonio Iglesia Pons, who was in
charge of military affairs for Artime. Artime did not have control
of military activities but served as a figurehead and the go-between
with the US Government.

On 4/15/64, Macias stated that several members of the Brigade
again would go to Miami on 4/20/64, and from there to Central America
to the training camps set up by Artime. Artime was reported to have
two bases in Central America, one in Nicaragua and the other in Costa
Rica.

109-584-3912

In connection with foregoing, Bureau memo dated 4/24/64,
set out CIA's appraisal of this and other information furnished by
the Newark Office and disseminated to CIA. According to CIA on 4/23/64,

-61-
(continued)
NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 11

(continued)

SECRET

Antonio Iglesia Pons was in charge of the Nicaraguan operations base
as a camp commander, but was not in charge of military affairs for
Artime

This memo also set out information on CIA's relationship
with Artime

109-584-3911

TP 52-S advised that Rodrigo Calderon of Miami, Florida,
a former high ranking officer in Cuba under former dictator Fulgencio
Batista, came to Tampa on 4/25/64 and met secretly with other Batista
followers. This group met for the purpose of formulating plans of
their own in the event Fidel Castro was overthrown in the near future
by anti-Castro forces that were not followers of Batista. It was felt
that this group feared Manuel Artime and desired to formulate plans
to be able to re-enter Cuba because it was common knowledge that
some Batista supporters would be regarded as undesirables in Cuba
when Castro was thrown out. It was believed that this meeting was
held at the home of a woman doctor by the name of Dr. Miranda.
Others present were Dr. Jose Mijares and a Dr. Santos, who worked
for Hillsborough County in Tampa.

109-584-3914

In 1960, CIA initiated a program known under the code name
"CLIP" (105-89923), the over-all objective of which was the establish-
ment of an organization among Cuban exiles capable of replacing the
Castro government. In May, 1960, CIA furnished the names of Cubans
making up the nucleus of the organization which would move against
Castro and which would publicly announce its existence under the
name of Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD Revolutionary
Democratic Front) (105-87912). On 6/22/60, a manifesto was published
in Mexico City, Mexico, announcing the formation of the FRD. Directors
of this organization who signed the manifesto and were in Mexico City

-62-
(continued)
NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 12

SECRET

Manuel Artime Buesa was in Nicaragua the week of 5/4/64
where he met with Teodoro Picado, Costa Rican pilot who returned
to San Jose in April, 1964 after having been jailed in Cuba for
seven months. (CIA)

109-584-3943

Press reports indicated that on 5/13/64, the MRR issued a
communique advising of the capture of the Port of Pilon in Cuba and
demolition of a sugar mill. Manuel Artime participated. The communi-
que was signed by Manuel Artime Buesa, Secretary General, and Rafael
Quintero, Military Coordinator of the MRR. The raid on the sugar
refinery at Central Pilon, Oriente Province, was reported also by
CSNY 2822-S and verified by Frank McCarthy, UPI, and Julio Lubo,
former owner of Central Pilon. The following references on Artime
relate to this activity:

REFERENCE SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

97-4133-99 (Setting out press release as
furnished by Dr. Cesar Baro
Esteva, Vice-Secretary General,
MRR)

-102* (PSI Alfredo Borges, protect
identity, and duplicate informant)

-A "The NY Times"
5/14/64 p.1.
("Cuban Exiles Say They Seized
Port").

-A Washington Capital News Service
5/13/64

105-114543-126

*Add. info.

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 13
SECRET
-67-

On 5/11/64, MM 960-S advised that Manuel Artime Buesa
continued as head of the MRR which maintained headquarters at 2212
N.E. 2nd Court, Miami.

Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez, Miami, former Comandos L
Waction group leader, advised on 5/12/64, that as soon as repairs
Were completed on his boat, the "Silvia" he and about 10 others [
would leave on the boat for Central America to join Artime.

On 5/12/64, INS, Miami (protect identity) advised that
Artime would leave Miami on 5/12 or 13/64 for Costa Rica, his Central
American headquarters, and then go to Nicaragua where he reportedly
had military training camps Artime was expected to return to the
US in about a week.

109-584-3976 p.8,9

SI as par. 2
105-117222-182 encl.p.3,4
(add. info.)

Alberto Oms Barreto, a former member of Brigade 2506 which
participated in the April, 1961 invasion of Cuba, advised on 4/2/64,
that he had made a trip to Washington, DC and Miami, Florida in mid-
March, 1964, and had talked to representatives of Brigade 2506. Oms
stated that leaders of Brigade 2506 in the Miami area were not con-
templating doing anything at the present time in a military way to
overthrow Fidel Castro. Most of them were not in sympathy with
Manuel Artime Buesa who formerly was the civilian head of Brigade
2506. Oms stated that some former members of Brigade 2506 had gone
with Artime and Artime was reported to have military camps in
Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Artime currently was the head of the MRR
and was reported to be preparing for raids and guerrilla activity in
Cuba in the immediate future.

On 5/13/64, CSNY 2822-S advised that his niece (not further
identified) recently had a letter from Joaquin Godoy of the MRP. Godoy
(continued)

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 14
SECRET -68-

(continued 109-584-3949)

REFERENCE SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

109-584-A Press Release for 5/22/64
column of Fulton Lewis, Jr.
for King Features Syndicate, Inc.

"The Washington Post and Times Herald", 5/30/64, p.B-7,
in an article entitled "Cuba's Oil Refineries 'Off Limits" in
Jack Anderson's "Washington Merry-Go-Round" column, reported that
these orders regarding the refineries were issued to Cuban Commandos
by CIA. An aide to Cuban exile leader Manuel Artime had explained
to this column: "We don't want to damage foreign property." A year
before, Artime had complained to this column that CIA had cut the
allowance for his freedom fighters down to a token $1000 a month.
He hadn't complained recently.

97-4133-А, "The Washington Post
and Times Herald"
5/30/64

CIA (protect identity) advised on 5/14/64 that the MRR was
not a CIA operation. CIA at the direction of "Special Group" had
been furnishing support to the MRR and its leader, Manuel Artime, and
had been maintaining liaison with him on a regular basis. CIA dis-
claimed control over the MRR and Artime.

On 6/17/64, Gordon (Rock) Rothwell (protect identity),
Covert CIA Representative, Miami, Florida identified Angel Alfredo
Fontanills Y Miguel (105-129278) as being connected with Manuel
Artime and the MRR.

-71-
NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 15

(continued)

SECRET

Information from Mesa, developed through his interpreter, James A.
Kraker(protect identity) of Crystal, Minnesota, indicated that as
of December, 1963, the MRR was reported to be sending a 5-man team
into Cuba once a month for the purpose of assassination, with Fidel
and Raul Castro and Che Guevara as the principal targets. Communi-
cations between Cuba and the US allegedly were through clandestine
short wave radio. Mesa returned to Minneapolis on 1/5/64, from a
visit to Miami where he failed to see Artime who was in Puerto Rico.
Mesa advised Kraker that Artime probably would spend more time in
Venezuela in 1964. According to Kraker, the MRR in the Twin Citiess
area was disbanded in July, 1964, upon orders of Manuel Artime

REFERENCE SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

97-4133-77
-82
-83
-84 encl.p.2
-92 encl.p.1,2
-134

Cuban exiles were saying that the US was providing a steady
flow of aid to the MRR which was led by Manuel Artime Buesa. Some
exiles claimed that the MRR attack on Puerto Pilon in May 1964, was
launched from the Dominican Republic. There was no evidence that
Artime was receiving support from the Venezuelan Government. His
failure to establish personal contact with the Venezuelan Administra-
tion during his 5/22-27/64 visit to Caracas, had provoked criticism
in government circles. Some disillusionment with the MRR was said
to be caused by Artime's failure to establish himself as the undis-
puted leader of the militant exile forces. (CIA, 7/16/64)

109-584-4034

During an interview on 10/22/64, John Ermil Freeman
(105-109596), 2728 S.W. 24th Avenue, Coconut Grove, Miami, intimated
(continued)

NW 88608 Docld:32303569 Page 16
-SECRET

(continued)

SECRET

placing himself in absolute control without heeding the ideological
postulates of the movement; and his failure to live up to the stand-
ards he had set up for the organization.

The "Miami News", Miami, Florida, 7/5/64, reported that
on the previous day, Artime ordered all his men to report to South..
American training camps immediately.

On 7/9/64, M.H. Redmon (protect identity), INS Investigator,
Miami, advised that the MRR had closed its Miami headquarters and
moved to Central America, but had established a secret underground
office somewhere in Miami. On 8/4/64, Redmon stated that numerous
MRR members went to Central America to join Artime during July, 1964
and that the MRR claimed it would move all of its records and
equipment out of Miami by chartered airplane to Artime's headquarters
in Central America. The MRR had a large ship that operated between
Central America and New Orleans, Louisiana. The ship, name unknown,
was operated by a cover company using letterhead stationery containing
the following: "Maritima Bom, S.A., Coconut Grove Bank Building, Suite
309, Miami, Florida, Phone # 444-5781-82." This company also claimed
to have Post Office boxes in Panama.and Nicaragua. Sixto Mesa was

On 7/28/64, Carlos Zarraga Martinez (protect identity), PSI
under development, advised that the rank and file MRR members continued
to severely criticize Artime for maintaining his mistress, Adelaida
Padron Cruz. She reportedly had great influence over Artime and some
of his decisions concerning the MRR's operations had been influenced
by her and objected to by the general membership

On 8/18/64, Miguel Dotres, 8418 N.W. 24th Avenue, Miami,
advised that in late March or early April, 1964, Aldo Vera Serafin,
head of an anti-Castro organization (not further identified), con-
ferred with Artime and brought his organization into Artime's organ-
ization. Dotres furnished information indicating that Artime was
against Baro's proposal that the MRR be headed by a 7-man board; also.
that the Cuban exile community doubted that Artime was a factor which
eventually would figure in the overthrow of the present Cuban Govern-
ment.

97-4133-115 encl.p.1-8

SECRET
-76-
(continued)

NW 8860