|
:
File #:

62-HQ-116395

Serial Scope:

1st NR 1203x, 1204x, 1st NR 1204x, 1206-1210X,
1212, 1214X, 1214x1, 1215, 1215x

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
B8614 Date: 03-18-2025

NW-88614-Docld:32989602-Page-1-
:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10
MAY 1962 EDITION,
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. Mintz - Encs. (2)
1 - Mr. Adams - Encs. (2)
1 - Mr. Bassett Encs. (2)
DATE: 12/5/75
1 - Mr. Wannall Encs. (2)
1 - Mr. Cregar - Encs. (2)
1 - Mr. Hotis - Encs. (2)
1 - Mr. Daly - Encs. (2)

MDR-16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/3100 BY SPALMKP

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

On 12/4/75, a meeting was held with the following
representatives of captioned Committee: Chief Counsel F.A.O.
Schwartz; Assistant Counsel Paul Michel; Staff Member Mark
Gitenstein; Staff Director of the Domestic Task Force John T.
Elliff; and Staff Member John Bayley. Representing the Bureau
at this meeting were Deputy Associate Director James B. Adams,
Assistant Director John A. Mintz, Inspector John B. Hotis, and
SA Paul V. Daly.

The meeting discussed the forthcoming testimony on
12/9/75 of the Director before that Committee and Elliff fur-1
nished the Bureau two draft papers discussing the Bureau's
investigative jurisdiction and issues the Committee Staff feels
the Senate Select Committee must address from a legislative
standpoint. Copies of these papers are attached.

The first paper which consists of six pages discusses
in Part 1 what the Committee sees as problems arising out of
the FBI's domestic intelligence investigations. This portion
highlights the fact that these investigations may be overbroad
in scope, collect irrelevant information, and continue the in-
vestigations beyond what the Committee sees as their normal
investigative conclusion. This portion also addresses the
investigative techniques used during these investigations and
the resultant dissemination of information collected.

Under Part 2, the document discusses options available
to the Committee. These options run the gamut from abolition
of the Bureau's domestic intelligence functions to administrative
oversight by the Attorney General or Congressional oversight or
enacting legislation providing for domestic intelligence investi-
gations with legislative limits imposed on such investigations.
Included is the consideration of creating an independent
Inspector General.
RCC-51
Enclosures

12-H35 1215X
7 JAN 22 1976

PVD:lad
(9)
CONTINUED - OVER
↓
84 26 1976
NW 88614-Docld:32989602 Page
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
↓
5-20

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams
RE: SENSTUDY 75

The second position paper which was prepared by
John T. Elliff begins by a six-page statement and analysis
of the Bureau's current authority to conduct domestic in-
telligence investigations. He then lists four options for
the Committee.

Option 1 is for Congress to pass legislation ratifying
the existing FBI authority as set forth by Presidential directives
and Executive Orders.

Option 2 suggests Congress might give serious con-
sideration to creating a separate Security Intelligence Agency
within the Department of Justice. In this Option, Elliff sug-
gests that the FBI itself has considered this Option as part of
the larger question of separating all FBI intelligence functions
from law enforcement functions of the Bureau.

Option 3 considers the elimination of FBI domestic
intelligence. In his analysis of this position, it might be
possible for the Bureau to develop the necessary intelligence
information through its normal criminal investigations and
thus remove the necessity for domestic intelligence investi-
gations as presently conducted.

Option 4 considers setting standards for domestic
intelligence investigations. In this Option, Elliff states
that the FBI should be authorized by statute to conduct domestic
intelligence investigations only as Congress finds that regular
criminal investigations would not provide information to an-
ticipate or prevent the use of violence in violations of Federal
law and that incidents of the use of violence in such violations
are of a serious nature and threaten the security of the country.

For purposes of the Director's appearance on 12/9/75
before the Senate Select Committee, it is believed his response
to questions concerning the aforementioned position papers should
be that the Bureau has received copies and is reviewing the various
proposals and that it would not be appropriate at this time for
the Director to comment regarding the substance of the proposals.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 3
- 2-
CONTINUED OVER
↓
↓

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams
RE: SENSTUDY 75

Elliff indicated during this meeting that the Director
during his appearance may anticipate being asked a question by
one of the Senators relating to his statement before the American
Bar Association in Montreal concerning the necessity for the
sacrifice of certain individual rights at the expense of investi-
gations. He also anticipated the Director might be asked a
question concerning his position on COINTELPRO. Regarding
the question concerning the Director's statement before the
American Bar Association in Montreal, the Legal Counsel Divi-
sion will draft a proposed resonse. Concerning COINTELPRO, a
response has been prepared and will be put together with the
briefing material for the Director.

This memorandum in general highlights the Options
presented in the attached papers. A more detailed analysis
should be prepared by the Intelligence Division and existing
documents addressing these proposals should be made available
for the Director's briefing book for his testimony.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

(1) That the Director respond to questions concerning
the attached position papers as set forth above.
Done.

(2) That the Legal Counsel Division draft a proposed
response concerning the Director's statement made in Montreal
relating to the sacrifice of certain individual rights.
Done.

(3) That the Intelligence Division make a detailed
review of the various Options set forth in the two attached
position papers. (FOR SUBSEQUENT STAFF CONFEE CA
της
AFTER 1219)
Det frems
2012/12/75
In
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 4
- 3
Эпа
me ND

Issues and Options for Discussion with
Former Attorneys General Rogers, Katzenbach, and Clark

I. Background

MDR-16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/31/00 BY SPALMKP

In the past few weeks the staff has presented the Committee
with evidence suggesting the following about the FBI's
internal security intelligence program:

A. The program is massive, involving the collection of
information on the activities of thousands of innocent,
law-abiding American citizens.

B. These individuals were not alleged espionage agents, but
citizens who fall within the FBI's vague definitions of
"subversion" and "extremism" purely homegrown "threats
to the national security".

C. That FBI policy on "subversive" and "extremist" inves-
tigations was vague and subject to the following abuses:

1. overbreadth in scope in that groups were investigated
whose threats to the national security were tenuous,
if not non-existent.

2. collection of information on the personal life and
political views of subjects unrelated to the national
security.

3. the continuance of investigations well after it
should have become obvious that there was no legiti-
mate predicate.

D. Particularly invasive collection techniques were used,
including electronic surveillance, mail opening, and sur-
reptitious entries. Although these have been terminated,
the predominant and perhaps most insidious continues
today through the FBI's huge informant/confidential source
network.

E. Information collected in the course of these investiga-
tions is disseminated regularly throughout the federal
government and to local law enforcement.

F. Until 1971, information collected through these investi-
gations was disseminated as part of the COINTELPRO pro-
gram to the subjects' friends, relatives, employers, and
others in an effort to discredit or "neutralize" alleged
"subversives" or "extremists".
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 5
ENCLOSURE
12-1116 393
12154

2

G. The FBI's internal security intelligence program was
used by Presidents from Franklin Roosevelt to Richard
Nixon to serve their political interests, usually by
collecting information on critics or political
opponents.

H. The program was conceived and implemented in secrecy,
and although parts of the program were shared with out-
side authorities from time to time, until now no
President, Attorney General, or Congressional committee
has been exposed to the entire program in detail.

I. The program is not authorized by statute but is founded
on a series of secret or ambiguous Presidential orders,
which in turn are based upon a questionable assertion
of "inherent constitutional authority".

J. The program continues today, albeit on a much more
limited basis than in the late 1960's and early 1970's,
and the basic machinery for the program the huge
informant/confidential source network is still
operating.

K. There is no statute or internal Bureau or Justice Depart-
'ment policy prohibiting a new Director, Attorney General,
or President from ordering the Bureau to expand the pro-
gram to its earlier dimensions.

II. Issues and Options

Among the issues and options which might be discussed with
former Attorneys General in response to what the Committee
has learned are the following:

A. Abolition. Elimination of the FBI internal security
intelligence program as Attorney General Harlan Stone
ordered in 1924 when confronted with abuses growing out
of the FBI's first internal security intelligence pro-
gram, such as the infamous Palmer raids.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues:

1. Whether there are not some functions (e.g., protecting
the President, preventing or at least predicting
violence by terrorist organizations, or predicting
civil disorders) which require intelligence collec-
tion.
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 6

3

2. Whether FBI intelligence reports are valuable in
that respect, especially in light of a recent GAO
report suggesting that such reports are rarely use-
ful in predicting violent activity.

3. Whether such information, assuming it is valuable,
could not be obtained through more traditional criminal
investigations.

4. Whether the value of the information, marginal or
otherwise, justifies the risk to civil liberties
inherent in such intelligence collection.

5. Whether, given the way in which limited and ambiguous
grants of authority have been expanded into major
authorizations,any statute short of a total prohibi-
tion of all non-law enforcement intelligence activi
ties in the domestic sector will be adequate to pre-
vent the recurrences of the kinds of abuses uncovered
by this Committee. (Or, conversely, whether it is
possible to draft a law authorizing a limited civil
disturbance and counter-terrorist intelligence mission
that will not eventually evolve, like the National
Security Act of 1947, into a charter for unanticipated
and unwanted covert activities.)

6. Whether it would be sufficient to restrict the FBI
to criminal investigations without also (a) placing
limits upon the length of investigations, (b) the
kinäs of information which can be collected and dis-
seminated on the subject irrelevant to the alleged
criminal act, (c). the utilization of warrantless
electronic surveillance and other particularly inva-
sive collection techniques, and (d) the utilization
of a huge informant/confidential source network with-
out judicial or Justice Department supervision.

B. Authorizing Statute. Recognition of the value of
internal security intelligence, but placing limits upon
the program designed to minimize the infringement upon
civil liberties, an option being actively considered by
the present Attorney General.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
many of the issues set out under the first option and,
in addition:
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 7

4

1. Whether meaningful and stringent guidelines can be
written which do not so hamper the administration
of an internal security intelligence program as to
make the product not just marginal, as GAO suggests,
but worthless.*

2. In light of the possibility that the present Attorney
General may address this matter via internal Justice
Department guidelines, whether this approach does
not ignore the legal authority question which can
only be resolved by statute.

3. Whether or not Congress could draft a statutory ver-
sion of the guidelines which could be flexible enough
to meet an evolving threat and at the same time
place meaningful restrictions upon the program.

4. Even assuming there is no absence of legal authority,
is it safe to leave these guidelines in the form of a
departmental order which can be rescinded by the next
Attorney General?

C. Delegation of Authority to Attorney General. Simply
ratifying the present program via enactment of a statutory
charter which grants the FBI authority to conduct an
internal security intelligence program subject to its own
internal guidelines or departmental guidelines as proposed
by the Attorney General.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
many of the issues set out above and:

1. Whether such a statute would not be an unconstitu-
tional delegation of powers to the Executive Branch.

2. Whether enactment of such a statute 'would not repre-
sent a failure by the Congress to confront the issues
raised above.

*A preliminary staff analysis of the Attorney General's draft
guidelines suggests that, despite months of conscientious and
painstaking work by a departmental task force, the guidelines
are not adequate. This analysis, which will be presented when
Attorney General Levi testifies on December 10, indicates that
several of the more questionable FBI investigations (e.g., of
Dr. King and the women's liberation movement) would still be
permissible under these proposed guidelines.
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 8

5

D. Legislative Inaction. Enact no new statute affecting
the FBI's legal authority or the internal security intel-
ligence program.
:
In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
many of the issues set out above and, in addition:

1. Whether this failure to act might not leave the
status of the program in doubt and subject to court
challenge.

2. Whether this failure to act after full disclosure
by the Bureau might not be taken by the FBI and the
courts as a ratification of the program.

E. Administrative Oversight by the Attorney General. The
Justice Department should be required to exercise greater
administrative oversight over the FBI's internal security
intelligence program by Attorney General Levi, regardless
of whatever other options Congress accepts.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues:

1. Whether it is practical for the Attorney General or
his staff to review thousands of such investigations
each year.

2. Whether the Attorney General or his staff should
review all or just the so-called "full" investiga-
tions.

3. Whether, to facilitate the conduct of such reviews,
the Attorney General or his staff should be given
"complete" access to Bureau files, including informa-
tion regarding the identity and reliability of infor-
mants and confidential sources.

4. Whether it is possible to develop a staff of career
attorneys within the Department with both the access.
and independence essential to the conduct of search-
ing reviews.

5. Whether the Attorney General or his staff should not
also be required to review various informant and so-
called "intensification" programs, and the establish-
ment of specialized indices (which have a significant
impact upon which cases are opened) instead of just
reviewing individual investigations in a vacuum as
provided by the Attorney General's draft guidelines.
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 9

6

F. An. Inspector General. In addition to the above options,
an independent Inspector General should be created to
investigate improprieties by the FBI. This option is
advanced by those concerned about the inadequacy of the
FBI's investigation of the disappearance of former
Director Hoover's personal files, its limited inquiry
into the so-called Atlantic City convention case, and
the absence of any internal investigation of the abuses
in the King case.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues:

1. Whether it is possible to maintain the independence
of an Inspector General within the Department of
Justice when both the Inspector General and the
Director of the FBI will be responsible to the same
official, the Attorney General.

2. Whether the Inspector General should have "complete"
access to Bureau files, including information per-
taining to the identity and reliability of informants
and confidential sources.

3. Whether an Inspector General with access to extremely
sensitive information might not become a serious
threat to the independence of the Bureau from politi-
cal influence and to the civil liberties of American
citizens.
:
G. Congressional Oversight. In addition to the above
options, the creation of an oversight committee(s) in the
Congress, to which the Bureau would be required to report
and which would have the power to investigate abuses.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the kinds of problems posed by the Justice Department
oversight and Inspector General options discussed above
to the independence of the FBI and the confidentiality
of its files.

H. Public Reporting and Disclosure to Subjects. In addition
to the above options, the requirement that the FBI make
frequent public reports on the details of its internal
security intelligence programs and policies and reveal
the details of improper intelligence investigations to
the subjects of those investigations.
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 10

7

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues:

1. Whether it is possible to reveal the essence of some
programs and policies and the details of some inves-
tigations without jeopardizing the effectiveness of
legitimate programs.

2. Whether such disclosure might not increase the num-
ber of law suits filed against the FBI alleging
illegal activities.
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 11

DRAFT
MEMORANDUM

FBI LEGISLATION - PROPOSED OPTIONS
December 4, 1975.

In preparation for the testimony of FBI Director
Kelley and Attorney General Levi on December 9 and 10, the
Domestic Intelligence Task Force is pulling together various
proposals for legislation dealing with FBI intelligence.
This paper sets forth some of the basic options.

A: Current Statutes and Executive Orders

The basic statute governing the FBI is 18 U.S.C. 533,
which reads as follows:

The Attorney General may appoint officials:
(1) to detect and prosecute crimes against
the United States, (2) to assist in the
protection of the person of the President,
and (3) to conduct such other investigations
regarding official matters under the control
of the Department of Justice and the Depart-
ment of State as may be directed by the
Attorney General.

Clauses (2) and (3) are a possible statutory basis
for intelligence investigations going beyond the investigation
of specific federal crimes. Under (2), the FBI may "assist" the
Secret Service in the protection of the President by providing
NW-886-14 Docld:32989602 Page 12

ANDINFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/31/00 BY SP2AUMKP

62-116395-1215X
ENCLOSURE

2-
:
intelligence on persons or groups who may endanger the Presi-
dent's safety. A formal agreement between the FBI and the
Secret Service sets forth the types of intelligence information
provided by the Bureau. However, this agreement states that:
:
-:
The FBI will not conduct investigation
of individuals or groups solely for the pur-
pose of establishing whether they constitute
a threat to the safety of the President and
certain other persons unless there is an
indication of a violation of Title 18, U. S.
Code, Section 1751, or other statute over
which the FBI has jurisdiction. (Tab A)
こ
Clause (3) recognizes that the Attorney General may
direct the FBI to conduct investigations, other than criminal
investigations, regarding certain undefined "official matters
under the control of the Department of Justice." This is a
possible statutory basis for at least two broad areas of FBI
intelligence investigations civil disturbance intelligence
and intelligence for the Federal Employee Security. Program.

The most recent legal advice to the FBI from the Justice
Department on the gathering and reporting of data regarding
civil disturbances notes that on April 1, 1969, the President
designated the Attorney General as chief civilian officer to
coordinate the government's response to civil disturbances.
The FBI is instructed to gather and report on "all significant
incidents of civil unrest" and on "all disturbances where there
are indications that extremist organizations are believed
to be involved in efforts to instigate or exploit them." The
:
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 13
:

3

FBI is spécifically advised to make reports "even when no
specific violation of federal law is indicated." On the other
:
:
hand, the FBI is instructed not to report "every relatively in-
significant incident of a strictly local nature coming to its
attention."
:
(Tab B)

The Justice Department has given the following recent
instructions to the FBI regarding intelligence for the Federal
Employee Security Program. Executive Order 10450, as amended
by Executive Order 11785, is interpreted as requiring an FBI
:
:
:
investigation of organizations "with a potential" of violating
federal or state statutes prohibiting unlawful advocacy of vio-
lence or the commission of any unlawful act of violence. The
FBI is advised that "it is not possible to set definite para-
meters covering the initiation of investigations of potential
organizations falling within the Order." The FBI is instructed
to apply "the same yardstick" to investigations of individuals
who are affiliated with such organizations. The FBI is specifi-
cally advised that "it is not necessary that a crime occur
before the investigation is initiated." (Tab C)
:
Clause (3) also recognizes that the Attorney General
may direct the FBI to conduct investigations, other than criminal
investigations, regarding certain undefined "official matters
under the control of the Department of State." This is a pos-
sible statutory basis for FBI intelligence investigation of
foreign intelligence activities within the United States or to
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 14

4

collect positive foreign intelligence. The best example is
the Attorney General's authorization of warrantless FBI elec-
:
tronic surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes.
:
However,
there is apparently no instruction from the Justice Department
to the FBI directing the Bureau to initiate investigations of
individuals or organizations which have a marked potential for
use by a foreign intelligence service, but about which there is.
no information indicating intelligence 'activity. (See Staff
Report, "Counterintelligence/Counterespionage: The Law and
the Philosophy", October 14, 1975.)
:
:
In his testimony before the Committee, Deputy Associate
FBI Director James Adams made no reference to clauses (2) and
(3) as a possible legal basis for FBI intelligence investiga-
tions going beyond the investigation of specific federal crimes.
Instead, he placed sole reliance on a series of Presidential
directives extending from 1936 until the 1960's which the FBI
interprets as authorizing it to engage in "domestic security
intelligence investigations". The Attorney General has codified
these directives in a Justice Department regulation instructing
the FBI to:

Carry out the Presidential directive
of September 6, 1939, as reaffirmed by Presi-
dential directives of January 8, 1943, July
24, 1950, and December 15, 1953, designating
the [FBI) to take charge of investigative
work in matters relating to espionage, sabotage,
subversive activities, and related matters.
28 C.F.R., Section 0.85(d).

NW.88614 Docld:32989602 Page 15

5
:
::
:
The FBI also cites directives of President Kennedy on June 9,
1962, and Attorney General Kennedy on March 5, 1964, which
are the latest charter for the Interdepartmental Intelligence
Conference, composed of the FBI Director and the chiefs of the
military intelligence agencies. This group is authorized to
coordinate "all investigation of domestic espionage, counter-
espionage, sabotage, subversion, and other related intelligence
matters affecting internal security." (Tab D)

The theory behind the FBI's position is that the Presi-
dent has inherent constitutional powers, at least in the
absence of contrary legislation, to authorize FBI intelligence
activities. The only judicial support for this theory is
language in the Supreme Court's opinion in the Keith case,
which declared warrantless wiretapping of domestic groups un-
:
constitutional.

The Court acknowledged the importance of "national secu-
rity in its domestic implications especially at a time
of worldwide ferment and when civil disorders in this country
are more prevalent than in the less turbulent periods of our
history." Under such circumstances, the Court stated, the
President has a "fundamental duty" under the Constitution to
"preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United
States." The Court added, "Implicit in that duty is the power
to protect our Government against those who would subvert or
overthrow it by unlawful means." Hence, the Court appeared to
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 16
:
:

-6
:
recognize that the President's "domestic security role" has a
"constitutional basis"; that the President through the Attorney
General may need "to obtain intelligence information about those
who plot unlawful acts against the Government"; and that "threats
and acts of sabotage against the Government exist in sufficient
number to justify investigative powers with respect to them."
The Court applied the general principle, that "unless the Govern-
ment safeguards its own capacity to function and to preserve
:
the security of its people, society itself could become so dis-.
ordered that all rights and liberties would be endangered."
Nevertheless, the central holding of the Keith decision was that
this power may not be exercised in such a way as to infringe
constitutional rights. 407 U.S. 297 (1972).

Even though the President may have the authority under
the Constitution to direct the FBI to conduct intelligence
investigations in the absence of legislation, Congress has the
ultimate authority to substitute statutory authorization in
place of the Presidential directives. As Justice Robert Jackson
declared in the Steel Seizure Case, "When the President takes
measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of
Congress, his power is at its lowest ebb.
*
343 U.S. 579,
637.
रु
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 17

7

B. Option One Ratifying Existing Powers
..
The first option for Congress is legislation ratifying
the existing. authority granted to the FBI by current Presiden-
tial directives and orders. Such legislation would be cast in
extremely general terms. Its main advantage is that it would
provide a basis for Congressional oversight. It could also
reinforce the Attorney General's role as the immediate super-.
visor of FBI intelligence activities. The statute would
authorize the Attorney General to direct the FBI:

1. to conduct investigations of domestic espionage,
counterespionage, sabotage, and subversive activities;

2. to gather and report information on civil distur-
bances;
..
3. to conduct investigations of other related intelli-
gence matters affecting internal security; and :

4. to conduct investigations of official matters relat-
ing to the Department of State.

In addition, the statute would require the Attorney General
to report annually to the appropriate Congressional committees
on the volume and type of investigations and reports, the
investigative techniques used, and the policies and procedures
adopted by the Justice Department and the FBI.

The weaknesses of this approach are obvious. Congress.
would have legislated a wholesale delegation of power without
:
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 18

8
-
standards or limitations other than the supervision of the
Attorney General and oversight by Congress. In view of the
Select Committee's findings as to the vast overbreadth of FBI
domestic intelligence investigations and the abuses committed
in the name of "counterintelligence", Congress would in effect
be permitting future expansion of FBI operations to match past
policies.

c. Option Two A Separate Security Intelligence Agency
Congress might give serious consideration to legislation
creating a separate Security Intelligence Agency within the
Justice Department. It would perform the functions of the
present Counterintelligence Branch of the FBI Intelligence
Division; dealing with foreign intelligence and counterintelli-
*gence/counterespionage. The FBI itself has considered this
option as part of the larger question of separating all FBI
intelligence functions from the law enforcement functions of
the Bureau. (Tab E)

A separate agency would be justified only if it was
authorized to conduct investigations of a wider scope and using
different techniques than would otherwise be permitted. In
other words, Congress could decide that foreign counterintelli-
gence investigations should go beyond investigation of specific
crimes, that techniques such as electronic surveillance should
be used without a warrant or with a special type of warrant,
し
:
竹
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 19

9
:
and that operations should be conducted to "counter" foreign
intelligence activities by means other than arrest or "persona
non grata" proceedings. On the other hand, if Congress treats
the investigation of foreign intelligence activities the same
as a criminal investigation, then the FBI should keep the job.

Any statute in this area must use general language for
diplomatic reasons. For example, Congress should not explicitly
authorize deception operations or efforts to compromise hostile
intelligence officers, even though such techniques may be
envisioned. Such techniques are dealt with best by establish-
ing adequate procedures for authorization and oversight to
ensure accountability.
:
The legislation should be more specific where it deals
with investigations and other operations directed at American
citizens rather than non-resident aliens in the service of a
foreign power.. If Congress believes Americans should be inves-
tigated if they have a marked potential for use by a foreign
intelligence service, but no information indicating intelligence
activity yet exists, the legislation should say so.

The statute should also set out standards for determin-
ing whether a foreign-dominated domestic organization falls
within the jurisdiction of the separate agency. There should
at the very least be substantial information indicating that
the organization is directed by, subsidized by, or in active
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 20.

10
:
(The
collaboration with a foreign government or organization.
term "foreign organization" refers, for instance, to a group
like the Palestine Liberation Organization.) If the group fits
the criteria for foreign domination, there should be an addi-
tional finding that it may engage in intelligence activities or
in activities involving the use of violence in violations of
federal law.

If the group meets all these standards, Congress may
authorize the investigation of its activities going beyond
regular criminal investigations. Such investigations could
extend to all individuals who are members of, or express sup-
port for, the organization, as well as to the efforts of the
organization to influence and control other groups. However,
it may be sufficient to authorize only the investigation. of
active members and supporters. This would prevent a revival
of the "Cominfil" policy of looking into all forms of lawful
political and social activity where Communists might be involv-
ed.

The Petersen Committee report on COINTELPRO considered
the need for special supervision of foreign counterintelligence
operations in the United States. It recommended the creation
of a Foreign Intelligence Advisory Commission to make decisions
with regard to the necessity or acceptability of particular
foreign counterintelligence techniques. (Tab F) This proposal
NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 21.

11
-
.:
has merit in view of the limited amount of time the Attorney
General can give to personal supervision and the after-the-fact
role of legislative oversight regarding the separate agency.

Finally, legislation to create a separate foreign
counterintelligence agency must deal with relationships to the
Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, and other
foreign intelligence agencies. The current FBI-CIA agreement
on their respective jurisdictions is only a "memorandum of under-
standing". It allows the CIA to undertake certain clandestine
activities within the United States, in coordination with the
FBI. (Tab G) Proposals are currently circulating in the Execu-
tive Branch for a new National Security Council Intelligence
Directive to clarify this matter, as well as to regulate CIA
electronic surveillance of American citizens abroad. (Tab H)

A full draft of a statutory charter for a separate
foreign counterintelligence agency is not included here, since
the focus is on domestic intelligence issues.. However, one
implication of such a statute would be that the remaining FBI
functions should relate only to law enforcement and criminal
investigations.

D. Option Three Elimination of FBI Domestic Intelligence

The basic assumption behind Attorney General Levi's
effort to develop "guidelines" for FBI domestic intelligence
is that regular criminal investigations are not adequate to
:
NW 88614 DocId:32989602 Page 22
:

12
1
..
supply the information needed to anticipate or prevent the use
of violence in violations of federal. law. That assumption
should be questioned. Regular criminal investigations are
likely to produce a substantial amount of information which
can be used to anticipate or prevent future crimes. For example,
intensive criminal investigations of Ku Klux Klan violence in
the South during the 1960's would have required the FBI to look
into a wide variety of Klan activities. Another example is the
search for Weatherman fugitives, a regular criminal investiga-
tion which involves broad inquiries across the country. The
FBI has not yet demonstrated that the preventive information
it has obtained came from intelligence investigations which
would not have been conducted as regular criminal investigations.
.:
The
The fact that an FBI investigation was supervised by
its Intelligence Division does not necessarily mean that the
investigation was, automatically, outside the regular criminal
law enforcement jurisdiction of the Bureau. Any FBI investiga-
tion of activities involving the use of violence in violations
of federal law falls within that jurisdiction. Moreover,
regular criminal investigations can also extend to plans,
attempts, or conspiracies to engage in such activities.

One suggested difference between intelligence-type and
regular criminal investigations is that the latter are
terminated after a reasonable time, if sufficient evidence