File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

441 THIRU 5th NR 474
475
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88296 Date: 2025

THE STATE LAW DEPARTMENT
1208 Munsey Building

Baltimore 2, Maryland
July 16, 1952

Federal Bureau of Investigation
U. S. Department of Justice
Post Office Box 2015
Baltimore 3, Maryland

Gentlemen:

I am enclosing for your information copy of
letter datod June 8, 1950 from the Industrial Employment
Review Board to a Gurney also copy of Mrs. Guney's
letter to Dr. Cyra, President a, President of "Universit tyof Maryland.
I know that you sill be intercated in twa. Gurney's
lotter.

If you have any further information regarding
Curnoy I wold certainly appreciate case, I am also
interested to know something more about the. the: Indust riel
Employment Tevion ora, especially whether or her or not your
records are available to it and the importance of its
findings.
."
:
Thanking you for your kindness and cooperation,

Very truly youre,
OJOWACOCKETT
Special Assistant Attorney General.
OBDit

Enes
ENCLOSURE

62-116395

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1- Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. T. E. Burns

July 25, 1975

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: FURTHER DOCUMENTS PERTAINING TO
THE FBI AND DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
#MOR16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED,
DATE 10/23/00 BYSAZALMITS

Reference is made to SSC letter dated May 14, 1975,
with attached appendices, requesting certain documents and
other information from the FBI,

Item number 1. b., of Part I, Appendix B of refer-
enced communication requested Committee Staff access to all
indices and control files pertaining to all programs operated
by the Intelligence Division for 1960 to the present.

Attached to this memorandum is a list of all
retrievable programs, projects, surveys and procedures
employed in connection with domestic intelligence operations
of the FBI which may be of interest to you. There were a
number of other programs, projects, surveys and procedures
employed in connection with foreign counterintelligence
operations of the FBI which are not included. In the event
you desire information concerning these latter items, which
include extremely sensitive matters, we would be pleased to
discuss them with SSC Staff Members at FBI Headquarters.

Enclosure
-
1 The Attorney General
mah
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
TEB:lek/1hblhb
(8)

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

Ута
SEE NOTE PAGE 2
Pur
woh

ENCLOSURE,
MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT

PRODED CLASSIFICATION.
I HAVE MOST FILES AT
MỸ DESK ON THESE
CODENAMES/CODEWORDS
FOR RESEARCH NEEDS.
11/21/00 #MURG
CLASSIFIED BY SP-2ALMITG
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1.6

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE:
TOP SECRET
The Programs, Projects, Surveys and Procedures List
(PPSPL), enclosed, and the Counterintelligence PPSPL, infra,
were generated by SA Thomas E. Burns, Jr. from a review of
available INTD inspection reports and files.

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PPSPL

1. Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries - Developing
positive intelligence information regarding personnel in the
United States from non-Soviet-bloc countries.

2. International Organization - Dangerous Aliens of Nations Outside
the Soviet-bloc Centralized compilation of potentially danger-
ous aliens with diplomatic immunity against whom the U. S. State
Department could initiate steps to deport or to lift
diplomatic immunity in the event of a war emergency.
-

3. Name Checks of Aliens Holding Diplomatic and International
Organization Visas - FBI maintaining results of name checks
conducted by various members of U. S. intelligence community
based on information provided to such intelligence organizations
by INS regarding aliens meeting established criteria.

4. Special Support Group (Use of non-Agent surveillance personnel). U
5. (Alem - Uncovering of Soviet illegals entering the United States. (5)
-

6. Anagram - Penetration of foreign diplomatic establishments in(s)
the United States for procurement of cryptographic materials.
(Mr. Buchen, Counsel to the President, has advised that sensi-
tive information such as that regarding(Anagram and electronic (5)
surveillances is to be handled in an oral briefing to be given
to Senators Church and Tower).

NOTE CONTINUED:
7. Banpop
-
TOP SECRET
Identification of Soviet illegals through the transfer
of funds through Swiss banks.

8. Chinese Aliens Entering the United States - Identification
of ethnic Chinese legally entering the U.S. with
intelligence assignments.

9. Chinese Communist Contacts with Scientists in the United States
Development of selected scientists of ethnic Chinese
background as foreign counterintelligence assets to be
targeted against People's Republic of China (PRC)
personnel and establishments in the U.S. and Canada.

10. Chinese Entering the United States Claiming Citizenship -
Identification of Chinese legally entering the U.S. with
intelligence assignments.

11. Chinese University and Graduate School Index List of
Chinese aliens in the U.S. who have attended colleges or
graduate schools on the Chinese mainland and who are
considered potential candidates for development as U.S.
assets.

12. Cokma - Specialized physical surveillance directed against
foreign intelligence officers. officers (5) I HAVE FILE 65-73750

13. (Canil - Identification of Soviet illegals arriving in the
United States from Europe through Canada) (5)

14. Chicoin - Counterintelligence activities to thwart
efforts of Chinese intelligence in this country. (0) DRL MINS

15. Forest - Screening of records of foreign students at New York
University, other than those in authorized programs, to uncover
Soviet illegals. (5)

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE CONTINUED:
TOP SECRET
16. Proho - [Program to detect homosexuals who have been compromised
or recruited by Soviet intelligence) (5) File 105-140972

17. Visitors to Communist China and Contacts by U. S. Residents
with Chinese Diplomatic Establishments - Investigations
conducted regarding certain individuals meeting established
criteria.

18. Visitors to Iron Curtain Countries Interviews of selected
U. S. tourists to determine possible contact by Soviet-bloc
intelligence. U

19. Orkid - Technical penetration of Soviet establishments in the
(United States. (5) FILE 105-189368

20. (Cloverleaf Technical penetration of new Soviet residential
complex, Riverdale, New York City) (5) FiLE 105-231856

21. Sam Survey - Screening of mail to selected European cities.U

22. Gus Survey
rvey - Screening of mail originating in New York,
New York, destined for specific postal zones.U

23. Radio and Technical Equipment Purchased by the Soviets
Recording of Soviet purchases in such areas--intelligence
and counterintelligence purposes.

24. (Rega - Identification of Soviet iet illegals entering the U.S.
as aliens during certain years. (5) 65-73094

25. Secomex - Expanded Mexican border coverage to include
development of sources against the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico. (5) FiLE 105-148076

DCU POLICY MEMO
STATES MENTION OF
NAME ITSELF is
NOT CLASSIFIED

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE CONTINUED:
TOP SECRET
沼
26. Sobir- Investigation of certain Soviet-bloc immigrants and
répatriates in an attempt to identify those previously
recruited by Soviet-bloc intelligence(s)

27. Socap - Review of certain records to identify Soviet
illegals who have applied for documentation as U.S.
residents as part of their effort to establish a bona fide
cover identity. FILE 65-66114
-

28. Vietnamėse Refugee Efforts to uncover possible
infiltration of North Vietnamese agents in the refugee flow
to the United States.

29. (Walklok - Screening of requests for birth certificates under
an established criteria to identify such requests which
may have originated with Soviet intelligence. (5) FILE 65-75/30

30. Technical and Microphone Surveillance Survey of telephone
and microphone installations functioning at certain times. U.

31. (Al Fatah Automatic Data Processing Project means of identifying
Al Fatah members and their contacts through use of ADP
equipment(s)

32. Cuban Refugee - Detection of Cuban intelligence agents
who might infiltrate into the U.S. through refugee
channels. (5)?

33.. Deseco - Development of selected contacts to be directed
against Soviet-bloc officials. U

34. East-West Exchange - Provided internal security safeguards
regarding admission to the U.S. of Soviet and satellite
nationals. U

35. Z Coverage Screening of mail destined for the Soviet Mission
to the United Nations. U
:
Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE CONTINUED:
TOP SECRET
36. Chiprop - Screening of mail to the United States from Hong Kong
and the People's Republic of China (PRC). U

37. Chiclet
- Screening of mail from the United States to Hong Kong
and the PRC. U
-

38. Alchemy - "notional" Pro-Marxist - Leninist - Maoist domestic
revolutionary organization staffed by Bureau assets. directed at
uncovering PRC intelligence activities in the United States (5)
-

39. Geology - Verification of individuals entering selected
foreign countries claiming U.S. citizenship--to identify
Soviet illegals (5) File 65-72903
-

40. Hilev - Collection of high level foreign political
intelligence by FBI Legal Attaches abroad for the SEE
information of the White House. U FILE 64-41404 SREF

41. Coarbit - Checking of U.S. Post Office Boxes utilized by U.S.
military personnel in the vicinity of selected U.S.
FILE
Military bases--to uncover possible Soviet agents. (5) F65-75385
-

42. Phrenology Efforts to identify Soviet illegals who formerly
resided in a specific foreign country and whose present
whereabouts are unknown (5) FILE 65-75008
Classified by 6283, XCDS 1, 2 and 3, Indefinite.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
TO: Intelligence Commuity Staff
ATTN: Central Index

FROM: FBI

NOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
BEFORE COMPLETING.
SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available
for review but not transmitted, so note.)
X DOCUMENT BRIEFING INTERVIEW TESTIMONY OTHER
For Review

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)
X SSC
2. DATE PROVIDED
7/25/75

HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other-
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.)
SSC request 5/14/75, Part I, Appendix B, Item 1b
6. CLASSIFICATION OF
INFORMATION (enter
U, C, S, TS or
Codeword)
U

7. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used un underline for emphasis)
Information Handling
Intelligence Collection
Operating Procedures

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)
Access to all available indices and control files
regarding all programs operated by the Intelligence Division
from 1960 to present.

62-116395
AJD:1hb
(4)

FMDR 16
ALT. INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/2/00 BY SP-2 ALM m176

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75.

3791 (6-75)
