File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

387 THRU 391

393 THRU 396

397

1ST NR 397,398

399

1ST NR 399,400.

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. R. Wannall

FROM: W. O. Cregano

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
2 - (1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
DATE: 7/15/75

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

#MDR-16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE/03-10-00BY SP2ALMIRW

By letter 7/7/75 to the Honorable Frank Church,
we noted that the Senate Select Committee had in its possession
certain materials, which were compiled by the Commission on
CIA Activities Within the United States, for the preparation
of its report to the President, which materials most probably
contained information regarding FBI operations of the utmost
sensitivity. In order to avoid any inadvertent compromise of
such information, we requested an opportunity to meet with
Senators Church and Tower at the earliest convenience to
discuss areas of this Bureau's activities which might warrant
special consideration. Senator Church agreed that the above
matter would be discussed with Director Kelley at the latter's
appearance before the Executive Session of the Senate Select
Committee meeting scheduled for 7/16/75.

REC-88
42-11-375-400
For your additional information, this Bureau had
earlier ascertained that the Senate Select Committee has had
access to a 693-page document prepared by CIA listing instances
wherein CIA believed its operations may have exceeded its
mandate. A review of this document by Bureau personnel indi-
cated that some of these operations involve matters involving
this Bureau of an extremely sensitive nature. In response to
a request of CIA for copies of pertinent material contained
in the above 693-page document, CIA on this date furnished
copies of the material requested.

3 JUL 22 1975

In anticipation of the Director's appearance before
SSC on 7/16/75, the above material furnished by CIA consisting
of approximately 174 pages was reviewed. This material is
found to contain numerous references, in sanitized form, to

62-116395

TJM:1hb Thb
(7)

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 2

CONTINUED - OVER
LESEL

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

various technical support CIA has provided this Bureau in
the area of electronic coverage of embassies in the United States.
No other information was found in this material which would
tend to jeopardize sensitive Bureau sources, ongoing
investigations or information we have received from foreign
intelligence sources.

ACTION:

Above submitted for information. A separate
memorandum is being prepared detailing information contained
in the material received from CIA and requesting of interested
Divisions and Sections at Headquarters their assessment of
any possible damage and recommendation for action to be taken
therewith.

TIM

PLM
Swater Chuch aиеле
indial
indis
carmen & also
avail Daesars medege
of my to Fe) iis
7/19/75
8/14/75

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 3

- 2 -

JUL 16 1975

Ir. John 7. Elliff, Dircetor
Domestic Intelligence Task Force
United States Senate Select Comittee
ca Intelligence Activities
Washington, DC. 20510-

Dear Ir. Elliff:

Hotio
DAIL

Your letter of July 16, responding to mine of July 15, was,
as you may recall, hani-delivered to no by Mr. Dick at 12:45 today.
I understand that your interpretive amplification is generally
shared by Kr. Schwarz.

We are studying the suggestions you have mado; in the mean-
tine, of course, we are prepared to proceed in accordance with tho
provisions of the July 15, letter.

Sincerely,

FBI
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DAT10-3-00310
K. WILLIANT O'COLOR
PALM
Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

cc: Deputy Attorney Gerieral 62-111-395
Doug Marvin
John Mintz
NOT RECORDED
46 JUL 30 1975

Sentistudy is
File
IF PALY

62-110375

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 4

84 JUL 3 0 1975

62-116395

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. J. Cochran
(Attn: Mr. W. D. Campbell)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

July 14, 1975

1- Mr. W. 0. Cregar
1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: INTERVIEN OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA)
VILLIAN D. CAMPBELL BY SSC
STAFF MEMBERS
FUKWATON CONTAINED
SUNCLASSIFIED
DATE 2.20 81 BYSPIRIL
6074
Set out below is information concerning an
interview of FBI SA William D. Campbell by SSC Staff Members.
Campbell is currently assigned to FBI Headquarters. The
details of the interview are as furnished by Campbell.

On advance notice from lir. Michael Epstein, SSC
Staff Member, Campbell was advised that he was to be interviewed
at 11:00 a.m., June 27, 1975, in the SSC offices. Campbell
vas informed by the Legal Counsel Division of the FBI that
he was being released_from any applicable employment agreement
for purposes of the SSC interview concerning the former FBI
investigations of Martin Luther King, Jr., Stanley David
Levison and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.
It was explained to Campbell that he had a right to counsel;
however, the FDI was unable to provide private counsel.
Campbell was also told that there were certain privileged
areas concerning which he would not be required to answer
questions. These areas concerned information thich night
divulge the icontities of FBI sources; information relating
to sensitive methods and techniques; information which might
adversely affect ongoing FDI investigations; and information
which had originated with other agencies, including foreign
intelligence agencies. Campbell vas informed that if a
question arose during the interview in one of these areas,
he had the privilege, before replying, of consulting with an

1-100-106670 (Martin Luther King, Jr.)
1 - 67- (Personnel File SA William D. Campbell)
Bar
SFP:1hb the ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG 62-11139399
(11
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
MAIL ROOM
NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 5
TELETYPE UNIT
ENCLOSURE
4
SEE NOTE PAGE
GPO: 1975 0-569-920

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE: INTERVIEW OF FBI SA BY SSC

Campbell advised he was on a squad in the security area,
that his Supervisor was E. H. Belter and that the Security
Coordinating Supervisor was L. W. R. Oberndorf, now deceased.

Epstein then asked that they get to the point and
inquired of Campbell as to when he had heard about the King
case. Campbell responded that sometime early in 1964 he
heard of the case and recalled it was shortly after the
assassination of President Kennedy, and King had been named
Man of the Year ("Time" Magazine), that Campbell became
knowledgeable under the following circumstances. Campbell
was summoned to the office of the SAC either by a fellow SA,
Bill Bergeron, or by Supervisor Belter, specific individual
not recalled. Present in the office was the SAC at the time,
Marlin Johnson, the then FBI Assistant Director William C.
Sullivan, Bergeron and probably several others, names not
recalled. The following was related by Campbell in response
to Epstein's questions concerning what tock place at the
conference

After some opening remarks by the SAC, Sullivan
advised that he did not want any of the information they
were to discuss to leave the room. Sullivan said that he
had information indicating that King was associating with
communists and that it was possible that King's movement was
being infiltrated. As a result, Sullivan said he wanted a
technical installation on King in an effort to verify this
information.

3
At some later date, Campbell was assigned to
monitor the technical installation on King in which a radio
transmitter was used. He could not recall whether the
equipment was signed out to him but he did take the equipment
home and on a Sunday afternoon he took a bus to Union Station.

NW 88608 Docid: 32989617 Page 6

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE; INTERVIEU OF FBI SA BY SSC

Hó walked around for a short time and then went by cab to
the Willard Hotel and checked in under an assumed name
(name not recalled). These actions were taken by him as
a security precaution. He did not recall who made his
reservation at the hotel. The first night King did not
enter the room which Campbell was monitoring. Campbell
could not recall the names of the individuals who occupied
the room he vas monitoring but did recall that they were
associated with the King party. The next day, Campbell and
a fellow SA, John Dorys, noved to a different room. He
could not recall how the arrangements for the rove were made.

Campbell and Dorys monitored King for about two
days, stayed one extra day at the hotel and then chocked
out. Lither Campbell or Borys remained in the room at all
times. One of them would take the logs and tapes out of
the hotel each day and turn then over to someone from IFO,
details not recalled. At no time did Campbell ever enter any
roon in the hotel that was occupied by King or any member of
King's party. The tape recorder they utilized was manually
operated and they attempted to run it at all times when
someone was in the room being monitored. Campbell knew of
no physical or photographic surveillance on King during that
time. Campbell also advised that he could not recall any
instructions concerning listening only to certain types of
conversations.

Epstein inquired as to whother Campbell kept a
card at WFO showing his location. He responded that it was
the normal practice to place a card in the usual repository
when one was away from the office. In this particular case,
if Campbell did leave a card, he would have probably placed
a notation on it such as "Special - Sec Supervisor Belter
for contact."

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 7

4
-

SEMATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGE.CE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE: LITERVIEW OF FBI SA BY SSC

In response to direct questioning, Campbell advised
that he had never seen any paper (memoranda, etc.) dealing
with this case other than the logs previously mentioned.

Epstein inquired as to whether Campbell had ever
seen the tapes again after he had departed the hotel. Campbell
advised that sometime later, possibly one or two months, he
was asked to review the tapes and logs in an effort to obtain
additional information. He did this at the FBI Laboratory
and was assisted by SA John Matter, retired in the technical
enhancement techniques, such as filtering. Campbell was not
directed to concentrate on any one part of the tapes but
reviewed all of them. He did not type any of the information
overheard and if any such typing was done, it was probably
done in the Intelligence Division. Campbell has not seen
the tapes since that time.

On Epstein's inquiry, Campbell advised he first
heard about the planned interview of him from SA Paul V. Daly
of the FBI's Legal Counsel Division and did not discuss the
King case with Bergeron, Matter or Borys after that contact.
Campbell did not know whether or not the tapes are still in
existence.

Miss Deoreo inquired as to whether it was the
normal practice to erase tapes. Campbell answered that in
this type of an investigation he was sure only new tapes were
used. He explained he was certain that tapes were new when
he found them still wrapped in cellophane and they had the
appearance of new tapes. She also inquired as to how he
secured the key for the second room in the hotel and whether
he had to re-register. He answered that he did not recall
but felt certain he did not re-register and that some other
SA from UFO probably obtained the key for him. During the

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 8

5

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE: INTERVIEW OF FBI SA BY SSC

monitoring, no persons other than Campbell and, Borys entered
the monitoring room. Additional responses to questions from
Epstein were as follows. Campbell utilized only one radio
receiver and listened to only one radio microphone. He
could not recall if there were any others in use. He and
Borys took turns listening to the transmitter. Campbell
did not remove the transmitter when he left the hotel as he
never entered any of the rooms assigned to the King party.
Campbell did not know any details concerning Mr. Sullivan's
remarks about King's association with communists. Campbell
did not attend all the meetings at WFO concerning the King
installation. It was his best recollection that the monitoring
was done in rooms one floor above the rooms occupied by the
King party.

At the end of the interview, Epstein indicated he
had one final question which was, as best Campbell could
remember, "Is there anything else about this case that you
know that has not come out because I did not ask the right
question or did not ask a question in the right way?" Campbell
replied that he felt that Epstein had done a good job in
asking the questions.

NOTE:

Assistant Director Mintz briefed Campbell prior to
his interview. Campbell was accompanied to the SSC offices
by Supervisor S. F. Phillips of the Senstudy 75 Project but
Phillips was not called upon for any consultation.

NW 88608 Docld:32989617. Page 9

6

-

When
Epstein then stated lets get to the point.
did you hear about the King case. I responded that some-
time early in 1964
recalled since it was shortly after
President Kennedy was shot and King was named man of the
year I was summons to the SAC's office either by my
associate Bill Bergeron or my supervisor Mr. Belter not
specifically recalled. The SAC, Marlin Johnson, Assistant
Director William Sullivan, Bergeron and probably several
others not recalled were in attendance. The following is
a narrative of information I furnished in response to
Epstein's questions.

The SAC made several remarks and Assistant Director
Sullivan then stated that he did not want any information
discussed to leave the room. Sullivan stated he had informa-
tion that indicated King was associating with communists and
it was possible his movement was being infiltrated. Sullivan
said he wanted a technical installation on King in an effort
to verify this information.

At some later date I was assigned to monitor the
installation which was a radio transmitter. I could not
recall if the equipment was signed out to me or not but I
took the equipment home and on a Sunday afternoon I caught a
bus to Union Station, I walked around for a short time and then
by cab went to the hotel and checked in under an assumed
name (name not remembered) I did not recall who made my
reservations. The first night King did not enter the room
we were monitoring. (I did not recall the names of
individuals who occupied room but they were associated with
King party.) The next day we (John Borys of WFO and myself)
moved to a different room. I could not recall how the
arrangements for the move was made. We then monitored King
for about two days, stayed one extra day at the hotel, and
checked out. Either Borys or myself stayed in the room at
all time. One would take the logs and tapes out of the
hotel each day and turn them over to someone from WFO (details
not recalled). At no time did I ever enter any room in the
hotel that was occupied ed by King or any member of his party.
The tape recorder was manually operated and we attempted to
run it any time someone was in the room. I know of no physical
or photographic surveillance on King during this time.
had no instructions that I can recall concerning only listening
to certain types of conversation.

I

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 10

-2-

Epstein asked if I kept a card at the office
showing my location. I responded that it was the normal
practice to place a card in file when one was away from
the office. In this case, if I placed a card in file I
probably would place a notation like "Special - See
Supervisor Belter for contact."

I had never seen any paper, memos, etc. (other
than logs) dealing with this case.

Epstein asked if I ever saw the tapes again
after departing the hotel. I stated that sometime after
(possibly one or two months) I was asked to review the tapes
and logs in an effort to obtain additional information. I
did this at the FBI Laboratory and was assisted by SA John
Matter, retired, in the technical enhancement techniques -
such as filtering. I was not directed to concentrate on
any one part of the tapes but reviewed all of the tapes.
I did not type any of the information and if it was typed
it was probably typed in the Intelligence Division.
not seen the tapes since that time.

I have

I first heard about my interview from Mr. Daly of
the Legal Division and did not discuss this case with
Mr. Bergeron, Mr. Matter or Mr. Borys after that contact.
I do not know if the tapes are still in existance.
DE Oreo
Dorio asked if it was the normal practice to
erase tapes. I stated that in this type investigation I
was sure only new tapes were used. I was certain the tapes
were new if they were still wrapped in cellophane and they
had the appearance of new tapes. She also asked how I got
the key for the second room at the hotel and did I have
to re-register. I stated, I did not recall but felt sure I
did not re-register and some agent from WFO probably got
the key to me. No other person entered the rooms except
Borys and myself where the monitoring was taking place.

Other responses to questions from Epstein were:
We only had one radio receiver and only listened to one
radio microphone, I could not recall if there were others.
Borys and myself took turns listening to the transmitter.
I did not remove the transmitter when I left the hotel as I
never entered any of the rooms assigned to the King party.

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 11

-3-

One final question from Epstein. Is there anything
else about this case that you know that has not come out
because I did not ask the right question or asked a question
in the right way. I advised I felt he had done a good job
in asking the questions.

Additional answers to questions. I did not
know any details concerning Mr. Sullivan's remarks about
King's association with communists. I did not attend all of
the meetings at WFO concerning the King installation. My
best recollection was that the monitoring was in rooms one
floor above the rooms occupied by King.

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 12

-4-

OTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
BEFORE COMPLETING.
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

TO: Intelligence Community Staff
FROM:
FBI
ATTN: Central Index

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available
for review but not transmitted, so note.)
2. DATE PROVIDED

DOCUMENT BRIEFING INTERVIEW TESTIMONY OTHER
7/14/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

SSC The Attorney General with a copy for forwarding to
HSC the White House

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandun reporting results of an interview by SSC Staff
Members of incumbent FBI Special Agent William D. Campbell

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other-
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.)
6. CLASSIFICATION OF
INFORMATION (enter
U, C, S, TS or
Codeword)
NA ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE/0-3-00 BY SALM

7. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Intelligence collection
Intelligence activities, domestic
Surveillance, lectronic

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Former FBI investigation of Martin Luther King Jr.; Stanley
David Levison and Southern Christian Leadership Conference
Organization of FBI Washington Field Office

62-116395

FMK: fmk
(4) ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW 5. wock

3791 (6-75)
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 13

273-10005,
INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 14

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
OLT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

July 18, 1975

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 2.2081 SPYJAMIN
6070

Enclosed for your information is the original of
a memorandum concerning an interview by Staff Members of
captioned Committee of former FBI Assistant Director Ivan Conrad.
A copy of the memorandum is also enclosed for forwarding to
Mr. James A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President.

Enclosures - 2

62-116395

1 - The Deputy Attorney General
1 - 100-106670 (Martin Luther King, Jr.)
1 - 67-35912 (Personnel file Former AD Ivan Conrad)

Attention: K. William O'Connor
Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

SFP:1hb/hb
(11)

(INREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FILED IN
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

3- ENCLOSURE
REC-88
ER812 116395-398

3 JUL 22 1976

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 15

MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT
GPO 954-546
4063 JCH

62-116395

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. S. F.Phillips

July 18, 1975

U. S. SE ATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: LTERVIE OF FORMER FBI
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (AD)
IVALI COLIRAD BY SSC STAFF
MEMBERS
FORMATION CONTAINE
2.20 8
SPYJL
6076

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
1
Plan. & Eval.
1
-
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

Set out below is information concerning an
interview of former FBI AD Ivan Conrad by SSC Staff Menbers.
Mr. Conrad served in the FBI from June 8, 1934, until his
retirement July 12, 1973, at which time he held the position
of AD in charge of the FBI's Laboratory.

On advance notice fron Mir. Michael Epstein, SSC
Staff Momber, Conrad was advised that he was to be intervierel
at 10:00 a.m., July 9, 1975, in the SSC offices. Conrad vas
informed by the Legal Counsel Division of the FBI that he
was being released from any applicable employment agreement
for purposes of the SSC interview concerning the former FBI
investigation of Martin Luther King, Jr. It was explained
to Corrad that he had the right to counsel; however, FBI was
umable to provide private counsel. Conrad vas also told
that there were certain privileged areas concerning which
he would not be required to answer questions. These areas
concerned information which nicht divulge the identities of
FBI sources; information relating to sensitive methods and
techniques; information which might adversely affect ongoing
FBI investigations; and information which had originated with
other agencies, including foreign intelligence agencies.
Conrad vas informed that if a question arose during the
interview in one of these areas, he had the privilege, before

- 100-106670 (Martin Luther King, Jr.)
- 67-35912 (Personnel File Former AD Ivan Conrad)!
Inb
SFP:1hb (10)
MAIL ROOM

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG
ENCLOSURE
TELETYPE UNIT
398

SEE NOTE PAGE 6
GPO 951-546
NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 16

SEMATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE: INTERVIEW OF FORMER FBI AD BY SSC

replying, of consulting with an FBI representative who would
accompany him to the interview. The representative would
not be present during the actual interview but would morely
be available nearby in the ovent consultation was desired.

The details of the interview, as voluntarily
furnished by Conrad, are as follows.

Conrad was interviewed in SSC quarters for the
approximate period 10:10 a.m. to 10:45 a.m., July 9, 1975,
by SSC Staff Members Michael Epstein and Mary DeOrco. No
mention of Conrad's rights was made. The following details
are not necessarily in chronological order.

Conrad was questioned concerning his career in the
FBI and the positions which he held. He replied that he
entered the FBI in 1934 and was assigned to the Laboratory
where he spent his entire FDI career. During the 1940's, he
was placed in charge of the Radio Engineering Section (RF)..
In 1955, he became the Number One Man, the equivalent of being
the Deputy AD in the Laboratory. In 1961, he was elevated to
the position of AD, which he held until his retirement in
mid-1973.

Conrad vas queried as to whether the Laboratory
was broken dom into various sections at the time he was AD.
He responded that there were four sections in the Laboratory:
Document, Physics and Chemistry, RE, and Cryptanalysis-Translation.
He was asked as to whether the sections were further broken
down into units and was asked for any such specific breakdown
in the RF.. His answer was that while there were unit breakdowns,
he did not recall the specific breakdown within the RE. He
was asked as to the basis for unit breakdowns and advised it
vas based upon sensitivity and expertise of the work; both
factors entered into consideration with the greater weight placed
upon the expertise factor.

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 17

-2

SEVATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE: INTERVIE OF FORMER FBI AD BY SSC

Conrad was told that the SSC was focusing on an
allegation that some tapes were made of a conversation of
Martin Luther King, Jr., and that these tapes were mailed
outside of the FBI. Conrad was also told that the SSC had
been advised that Conrad had been requested to make copies
of such tapes for the indicated purpose of mailing outside
the FBI. Conrad was then asked what he knew about this
matter. His answer was that he did not know or recall
anything that would fit the description above. Conrad asked
Epstein if the latter could indicate a time frame which
might assist Conrad in his recall. Epstein said they were
referring to the early 1960's, after which Conrad responded
that that was a long time ago and Conrad was just unable to
recall anything on the allegation. Conrad was asked if he
recalled making copies of a tape dealing with King without
knowing it was for the purpose of the tapes being mailed.
His response was "No."

Conrad was asked if he had known that the FBI had
technical coverage of King. His response was, "Hot specifically."
He was then asked what he meant by "specifically" and this
point was pressed by the interrogators. Conrad responded
that he recalled that FBI Director Hoover had announced
publicly that the FBI had in effect a number of wire taps,
thus indicating that a number of FBI subjects who were under
investigation were thus covered through such means. However,
Conrad did not know or recall that King was actually one of
the subjects of such coverage.

Conrad was asked whether he recalled, aside from
the King case, whether any recordings were sent to the
Laboratory for processing or copying when they related to
civil rights matters. His response was, "No."

NW 88608 Docld:32989617 Page 18

3
-

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE: INTERVIEW OF FORMER FBI AD BY SSC

Conrad was asked who was in charge of the RE and
* responded by asking for time frame He was told the
reference was to the early 1960's and Conrad responded that,
because of the turnover of personnel, he could not respond
to any specific times. He was then asked who was in charge.
at the time Conrad retired in 1973 and he gave the name of
Wayne Bradley (retired). He was asked how long Bradley was
the Section Chief of RE and Conrad answered that he could
not remember.

In
Conrad was asked whether it was common to make
copies of tapes derived from technical coverage. He responded
that it was done on occasion and explained that tapes would
sometimes be sent to the Laboratory in order to obtain more
coherent copies through a process known as filtering.
such instances, filtered copies were produced in the
Laboratory. When asked where this was done, Conrad said it
was done in the RE. He was asked whether all tapes derived
from technical coverage were sent to the Laboratory and his
response was "No." He was asked if all technical coverage
tapes were maintained by the Laboratory and his response
was "No." When asked. under what conditions they would be
sent to the Laboratory, Conrad advised that they would be
sent to the Laboratory when it was necessary to have them
filtered. In response to inquiry as to what the mechanics
were of getting the tapes to the Laboratory, Conrad said there
was no single procedure. They might be sent by a field office
directly to the laboratory with a request for assistance in
making the tapes more readable; or, the assistance of this
nature might originate with an FBI Headquarters official.

Conrad was asked for the detailed mechanics of the
routing requests for filtering and he responded that he did
not see how this bore on the King matter. He was then asked
whether a record was always made of requests for filtering,

NW 88608, Docld:32989617 Page 19

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RO: INTERVIEW OF FORMER FBI AD BY SSC

and he responded that, if the request was from the field,
there would normally be a cover communication which would
be the permanent record. However, if the request was from
a Headquarters official, there might not always be a written
record. He was asked how the material would get to a specific
person in the Laboratory and he responded by saying that it
might be routed directly by the sender or routed to the
Laboratory generally, and then from the central routing
point in the Laboratory it would be sent to either RE or the
specific person who would handle the matter. Conrad was
asked hor a router would know where to send such an item and
he responded that there would be information in the cover
communication which would assist in this routing.

Conrad was asked whether it was necessary to
account by inventory for all tapes used in making copies of
