JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 04/24/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10085
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3267-377

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, LA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 11/14/62
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : JRO, ASSOC, TRA, PHYSICAL EXAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/20/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318 Docld:34489866 Page 1
2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
NOV 1 5 1962
TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson
Mr. Belmont
Mr. Mohr
Mr. Casper
Mr. Callahan
Mr. Conrad
Mr. DeLoach
Mr. Evans
Mr. Gale
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Tavel
Mr. Trotter
Tele. Room
Miss Holmes
Miss Gandy

URGENT 11/14/62 10-30 PM AH
TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-3267
FROM SAC, LOS ANGELES 92-113 2P
JOHN ROSELLI. AR.

ROSSELLI HAD RESERVATION WAL TO LAS VEGAS, NEVADA,
SIX THIRTY PM, NOV. FOURTEEN INSTANT, BUT CANCELLED AND
MADE NO OTHER RESERVATION.

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT C WENT TO DINNER ON NOV. THIRTEEN
LAST WITH ROSSELLI AND JONIE TAPS, WHO INFORMANT SAYS IS
OFFICIAL AT TWENTIETH CENTRUM FOX STUDIO. DURING DINNER
ROSSELLI SAID ABOUT SIX YEARS AGO HE RECEIVED SEVEN HUNDRED AND
NINETY THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM BRYAN FOY, MOVIE PRODUCER, TO
PURCHASE UNIDENTIFIED HOTEL AND CASINO DOWNTOWN LAS VEGAS/
THAT DEAL WENT THROUGH AND ROSSELLI RECEIVED POINTS FOR
HANDLING. IDENTITY OF HOTEL NOT PRESENT KNOWN.

ROSSELLI SAID GOING TO SANTA BARBARA THIS WEEK FOR EX. - 120 92-3267-377
PHYSICAL CHECK UP AND TO PALM SPRINGS, CALIF. ON NOV. SIXTEEN. REC-26.
NEXT. NOV 15 1962
END PAGE ONE 95
54 NOV 21 1962 @1531

NW 78318 Docld:34489866 Page 2
