AGENCY : FBI
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 04/20/98
Page: 1

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10169
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-518

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, LA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 09/09/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : JRO, RES, ASSOC, TRA, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/17/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :
--
--
NW 78318 Docld:34489916 Page 1
2025 Release under the President John
F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

FD-36 (Rev.
3-56)

Transmit the following in
Via
AIRTEL
FBI
Date: 9/9/63
(Type in plain text or code)
AIR MAIL
REGISTERED
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)
FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-1130)
RE: JOHN ROSELLI, aka

LA 4396-C* advised that ROSSELLI has not resided
at his Los Angeles apartment during the past week and has not
been at the apartment since 8/28/63, when he went to Las
Vegas, Nevada, with ALBERT FOLEY.

LA 4268-C advised that he has not observed ROSSELLI
at the Friar's Club in Beverly Hills, California, for about
one week.

The Las Vegas Office advised that as of 9/4/63
ROSSELLI was still registered at the Desert Inn Hotel in
Las Vegas, however, he had not been observed in the hotel
for two days and that one ALBERT FOLEY, who registered at the
hotel on 8/28/63, gave his address as 3669 Old Shell Road,
Mobile, Alabama. The Mobile Address would indicate that ALBERT
FOLEY is the Jesuit Priest from Spring Hill College, Mobile,
Alabama.

On 8/31/63 ROSSELLI received a telephone call at the
Desert Inn Hotel, from a Miss G. LOWELL at telephone number
HO 6-3441, Hollywood, California. This is the telephone number
of Martoni Italian Restaurant, Hollywood, California. Miss
G. LOWELL is probably Miss GERALDINE LOWELL, who endeavored
to locate ROSSELLI in Las Vegas on 8/28/63.

- Bureau
- Los Angeles

HFD:jcc
(4)
5.3 SEP 20 1963

Approved:
REC: 29 92-3267-518
1 SEP 10 1963
ST-11
Sent M Per
Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318 Docld:34489916 Page 2

LA 92-1130

ROBERT W. LINDSAY, General Manager, Half Moon Inn,
San Diego, California, advised that MAURICE FRIEDMAN and a
large party were registered in two suites at this Inn from
8/22 - 25/63 and that ROSSELLI was present in this group.

On 9/4/63 LA 4268-C advised that BEN WOHLSTADER,
a member of the Friars Club, showed informant a photograph
of ROSSELLI, FRIEDMAN, JACK BARENFELD and MARTY GOODMAN, each
with a girl firend seated at a table. WOHLSTADER said the
photograph was taken the previous week at Del Webb's Ocean
House, San Diego, California, on the occasion of the celebration
of his, WOHLSTADER's, 30th wedding anniversary. The San
Diego Office is being requested to endeavor to obtain some
of the photographs through the photographer who took them.

NW 78318 Docld:34489916 Page 3
- 2 -
