JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10304
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-3200-1ST NR 524

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
Date: 04/17/98
Page: 1

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: AG
TITLE :
DATE: 02/01/72
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : JRO, PARZOW, WILLIAM ALEXANDER, OC, RES, TRA, REL,
BUSS, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/17/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President John
F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318 Docld:34490012 Page 1

The Attorney General
February 1, 1972

Director, FDI

1 - Mr. Tolson
WILLIAM ALEXANDER PARZOW, 1 - Mr. Felt
ALLGO KNOWN AS 1 - Mr. Rosen
WILLIAM ASPAINI PARZOW 1 - Mr. Bates
ABIE WILLIAMS 1 - Mr. Bolz
1 - Mr. Shanley
"ANTE THE GREATOR PANTON
MOULLANDOUS - DIFORMATION CONCERNING
(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

The following information was received from
informant of this Bureau who has furnished reliable information
in the past. Because of the informant'a sensitive position in
organized crine, our Los Angeles, California, Office requests
the information be dealt with in strict confidence.

William Alexander Parzow, reportedly well known in
organized crime and a New Jersey resident, was visiting his
son-in-law, Donald Drawmstone, 19566 Columbia Avenue, Fialto,
California, on January 10 and 11, 1972. According to the
informant, Parzow operates an insurance business in New York,
New York, and is a non-practicing attorney, however, his main
business is influence peddling and politically fixing situations
for individuals who have hoodlum connections and who can pay
vast suns of money for this purpose. Parzow claims to be "wall
connected" with Murray M. Chotiner, former Special Counsel to
the President, Edward Bennett Williams, the well known
Washington, D. C., attorney, and Willian G. Ilundley, former
Section Chief, Organized Crime and Racketcering, U. S.-bopartment
of Justice.

FEB 2 1972
On January 10, 1972, while in Los Angeles, California
Parzow reportedly made the statement that one of the reasous
he was in Los Angeles was that an unnamed individual in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, asked hia to see if he could assist
in obtaining the release of Mamuel Ricky Jacobs who is currently
incarcerated in the Federal Correctional Institution, Loppor,
California. This Eureau's files reveal Jacobs was convicted in
CU. S. District Court, Los Angeles, California, on December 1
1960, for violations regarding interstate travel and use of
interstate facilities in aid of racketeering enterprises,
cinterstate transportation of fraudulently taken securities, and
falso statament in income tax returne.

Mr. Mohr
Mr. Bishop
Mr. Miller. E.S.
Mr. Callahan
Mr. Casper
Mr. Conrad
Mr. Dalbey
Mr. Cleveland
Mr. Ponder
Mr. Bates
Mr. Waikart
Tele.
59 FEB 7 1972
JFS: bjp you
TELETYPE UNIT
Mr. Walters
Mr. Soyars
Misa Mol
Mins Gandy
MAIL ROOM
166-3200
SEE NOTE PAGE2
FEB 2 1972

ORIGINAL FILED IN 63-2992-

NW 78318 Docld: 34490012 Page 2

The Attorney General

On January 10, 1972, Parzow also indicated that ba
had in his possession Federal Grand Jury transcripts concorning
an Rastern Pennsylvania grand jury that was looking into
election law violations, which investigation was headed by
a Federal Strike Force. He gave no reason for having tim
transcripts, but reportedly said the case involved one Pat Brown
from California, not further identified, and four governore from
other states. Parzow claimed to have received thdon transcripts
fron a ranking official with the Federal Strike Force.
January 11, 1972, Parzow exhibited certain documents which the
informant believed to be question and answer Federal Grand Jury
transcripts. They were from the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, and one was dated June 30, 1971.

On
On January 11, 1972, Parzow remarked that he had nat
the son of John Allesio and as a result of that meeting he
intends to assist Allezio in offecting his early release frOA
the Federal Correctional Institution, Loпрос. He said payment
for this service will be in preniuns paid to his new York
insurance company, however, no insurance policy will be issued.
This Bureau has determined that John Allesio is currently
Incarcorated in the above correctional institution following
his conviction in U. S. District Court, San Diego, California,
for tax fraud.

No investigation in this matter is being conducted
by this Bureau in the absence of a specific request from the
V. 6. Department of Justice.

1. The Deputy Attorney General
:
1 - Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division

NOTE: Above information furnished by LA 4711-C-TE who has
furnished extremely reliable information in the past concerning
organized crime matters. Because of the vague nature of the
information attributed to subject Parzow, this information is
being brought to the attention of the Department and no further
action is indicated at this time.

2-

NW 78318 Docld:34490012 Page 3
