File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

231 THRU 235

236 THRU IST NR 237
IST NR 238, 239
241,242
244,245
247
249, IST NR 249
252 THRU 254
255 THRU 260
2102 THRU 265

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW 88614
Date: 03-18-2025
E

NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 1

Alan G. Sentinella

May 21, 1975

The following represents the writer's recollection
of testimony given this date before the Senate Select Committee
(SSC) pursuant to subpoena. The session commenced at 10 a.m.
former
5/21/75 in Room 607, Caroll Arms Hotel.
Present was Senator
Robert Morgan (North Carolina); Lester B. Seidel, Staff Member;
Mr. Jack Smith, Staff Member; Mr. John Bailey, Assistant
Minority Counsel, and a male reporter. Senator Morgan placed
the writer under oath. Approximately four or five minutes later
Senator Morgan excused himself with a general statement to
the effect he had other pressing matters. The entire proceedings
with only two exceptions were conducted by Lester B. Seidel.

Seidel explained the writer was entitled to counsel,
had the privilege of invoking provisions of the Fifth Amendment,
and would have the privilege of making an opening and closing
statement. Seidel inquired whether the writer understood his
Crights and the Committee's rules and regulations, a copy of
which he had made available.

The writer acknowledged receipt of the Committee's
rules and regulations as furnished by Seidel at 9:31 a.m.
5/21/75. He also acknowledged he had been informed of the right
to courriForuminasmuch as this Committee was not understood
INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/19/2000
BYSPAALM/IMY ENCLOSURE) 62-116395-265
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page2-16

to constitute a grand jury and in the absence of any charges
or allegations of a violation of law on his part, he did not
insist on the presence of counsel.
Seidel was advised that
advised as a former Special Agent the
writer had contacted the Bureau's Legal Counsel Division and
as of this date had been advised by Mr. Paul Daly thereof that
he had been cleared by the Attorney General (AG) to testify
to matters relating to investigation of Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), and Stanley
Levison.

"Seidel was advised that during his interview of the
writer in Atlanta, Georgia, on 5/12/75 he had asked a question
as to how long after the assassination of King did the telephone
surveillance continue on the King residence. On 5/12/75 the
writer responded it was his recollection this coverage continued
until a short time subsequent to the assassination. Following
that interview, the writer recalled that either shortly before
or shortly after that case was assigned to the writer, the King
family had moved from one residence to another and that
continuation of the telephone surveillance from the former
residence to the latter one was not authorized. Secondly,
Seidel on 5/12/75 had asked when the King and SCLC cases were
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 3
2

assigned to the writer, the writer recalled such assignment
was in the early part of 1965; that it was now the writer's
recollection this assignment was made in May, 1965.

Set forth below are questions asked by Seidel (unless
otherwise indicated) and the writer's answers. These questions
and answers are not set forth chronologically.
Q. Why was continuance of the telephone surveillance
not continued to the Kings' new residence?
A.
Continuance was not authorized by the AG.
"Q. What telephone surveillance was there conducted by
Atlanta of Stanley Levison?
A. There was no such coverage per se only such as afforded
by contacts made of King or members of the SCLC staff by
Levison.
1
Q. Was there telephone surveillance of Levison in New York?
"A. Any contacts of King by Levison while in New York would
have been covered.
Q. Did the New York Office maintain telephone surveillance
of Levison?
A.
I do not directly know.
Q. During the Atlanta interview you indicated you had read
New York reports concerning Levison. Is that correct?
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 4
3

11
A. Yes.
↑ Q. During Atlanta interview you indicated you presumed
these reports set forth information concerning Levison from
a telephone surveillance.
A. Yes.
Is that correct?

Q. What was the basis for your presumption?
A. The appropriate administrative portion of such report
would have so indicated.

Q. What evidence of CP connections did your investigation
develop concerning Levison?
"A. None.

Q. What information did you have establishing CP connection
re Levison?
A. Such information as was set forth in what was then referred
to as a characterization of Levison. Such characterization was
a part of each report submitted to the Bureau.

Q. What was the nature of this characterization?
A.
I do not remember the precise language. It is my recollection
the statement was brief and set forth information establishing
past and/or present CP affiliation by Levison.

Q. Where did you obtain this characterization?
Α.
A. A characterization of an individual or organization at
that time was prepared by the field office concerned, submitted
NW-886.14_DocId: 32989606 Page 5
4

fee
pages
ITEM
ㅍ
1
to Bureau Headquarters for its approval, and such was made
available to offices having a need-to-know this information.

Q. What was the source of this information regarding Levison.
A.
I do not recall that I was ever, apprised thereof. A
characterization would not indicate the source of the information,
unless public source information was utilized, otherwise the
reliability or lack thereof of the source or sources would be
indicated but not their identity.

"Q. What prompted you today to amend your answer on May the 12th
75 as to how long telephone surveillance continued on the King
A
residence? Did you seek the advice or an answer from someone?
ONLY
"A. To the extent that subsequent to May the 12th I conferred
with a former Agent, Charles Harding, prior te
P
thereto
prior to that time-which-it
to that question
had concerned me, that my initial answer for some reason did not
impress me as being completely correct. I mentioned this to
Harding and he informed me that my answer was incorrect and
mentioned the change in the King residence and the fact coverage
had not been thereafter authorized. When he informed me of
this I immediately récalled the change in residence which
previously had escaped my memory.

Q. Why would Harding know this information?
NW 886.14 Docld:32989606 Page 6
:
1
5

A. For a period of time he was in a supervisory capacity.

Q. Was he in a supervisory capacity when the change in
residence was made?
"A. He was in a relief supervisory capacity at that time.

Q. Why did you rely on Harding's recollection?
better than yours?
Is his recollection

A.
I am not suggesting his recollection is better or worse
い
than mine. What he said to me merely served to jog my memory
upon which I based my earlier statement today.

Q. You recall when I interviewed you in Atlanta most of
?
my questions were taken from prepared notes.
A. Yes.

"Q. You recall that I told you that I would make notes during
the interview in order that I might later refresh my recollection
?
as to your testimony.
A. Yes, and Mr. Seidel, you recall that I did not take any
notes (to which he answered in the affirmative).

Q. Did you make any recording of that interview at the time?
A. I did not.

Q. Did you make any subsequent written recording of the
interview?
...NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 7
:
6

A. Yes, I did so for my personal information.

1
Q. Is such writing available to this Committee?
A.
I consider it a personal item for my personal use.
I realize that you have the perogative of subpoenaing it.
In the absence thereof, I prefer not to make it available.

"Q. How long after King's assassination did the telephone
surveillance of SCLC continue?
A. I cannot be certain. It continued for a period of time
which may have been one, two, possibly three months. I simply
do not remember.
い
Q. Who handled SCLC and Levison case after you left the Bureau?
A. Richard Hamilton.

Q. When did he assume these cases?
"A. I cannot recall precisely. I am not even sure whether they
had been administratively reassigned to him prior to my departure.

Q. Who else besides Stanley Levison was in contact with King
who you understood to have some type of CP connections?
A. There was Hunter Pitts O'Dell, Bayard Rustin, and Harry
Wachtel.

Q. Hunter Pitts O'Dell, the same as Jack O'Dell?
A. Yes, he was.

Q. What evidence of CP connections or domination by Moscow of
O'Dell, Rustin, Wachtel, did your investigation develop?
NW-88614 Docld:32989606 Page 8
7

A. It did not develop any such information.

Q. How did you know of whatever their CP affiliation may
have been?
A.
In the same manner as in regard to Levison.

"Q. What investigation did Atlanta conduct of O'Dell, Rustin,
and Wachtel?
"A. There was no active ongoing investigation conducted of
these individuals other than during such periods when they were
in contact with King or members of SCLCX

"Q. Was Coretta King ever the target of an electronic surveillance?
M
い
A. Not to my knowledge beyond such coverage as might have occurred.
from the telephone surveillance when it applied to the King
residence or on such occasions when she might have been present
in SCLC headquarters.

Q. Do you know when the telephone surveillance of King and
SCLC were initiated?
A.
い
I did not have the cases at that time.

Q. Did you not learn of such information while you had these
cases?
A. Yes.

Q. How?
V
A
A. From information in the appropriate file.

Q. What communication transpired between the Bureau and
Atlanta relative to the initiation of these telephone surveillances,
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 9
8
い

!
!
M
airtels, letters, memoranda?
A.
I am certain there were airtels, letters, possibly
teletypes in the file..
g
Q. What was the fist of such communications?
"A. Advisement that such installation had been authorized,
instructions to initiate the coverage.
1
Q. Who installed the surveillances, Al Miller; was he not a
technician, a wireman?
A. Your answer to that question is not entirely correct.
Alden Miller was an Atlanta Agent who had certain technical
ability. It is my recollection the surveillance was installed
by an Agent who was not from the Atlanta Office. I do not
remember his name.

Q. Did you monitor any of these surveillances?
"A. No.

Q. Did you monitor any such surveillance during this period
of time?
A. Yes. I recall on two occasions filling in for another
employee in connection with telephone surveillance of the
headquarters of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.
I did not monitor the King or SCLC telephone surveillance.

Q. What was the nature of the investigation of SNCC?
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 10
9

To determine communist influence of that organization.
A.
"Q. What is your recollection of the Bureau's efforts to
influence any political campaign.
۱۰
A. I have no such recollection.
"Q. What about efforts to disrupt the political campaign of
Senator Andrew Young?
"A.
A. I do not know of any such efforts. It's my recollection
that Andrew Young did not become actively involved in politics
during the period of time with which we are concerned. (SEE
しょ
←
:
ISEE ITEM I.
of attached pages
Q. Did a former Bureau official William Sullivan visit Atlanta
during this period?
A. There were two Sullivans in an official capacity with the
Bureau.

Q. William Sullivan, who was formerly connected with intelligence
matters at the Bureau. Did you ever meet him?
A. Yes. I met him on several occasions during the 1950s.
I do not recall any contact with him during the period with
which we are presently concerned.

"Q. After you received the King, SCLC, and Levison cases,
n
what did Mr. Bob Nichols do?
A. Shortly thereafter he was transferred as a Resident Agent
to Valdosta, Georgia.
५.
Court Seal (JFK Law 10(a)1]
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 11
10

A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
"Q.
"A.
Q.
MA.
Q.
"A.
a
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Court Seal [JFK Law 10 (a)1)
11
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 12

h
V
Q. Can you give an example of such reference?
A. There is only one particular conversation that comes to
mind at the moment and I have no recollection with whom the
conversation was held during which reference was made to a
wonderful sermon they had preached together on somebody's
kitchen floor.

Q. Kitchen floor?
A. Yes.

Q. What surreptitious entry was made in respect to the King
residence or SCLC headquarters?
A. During the period I was concerned with these cases there
was none..

Q. Supposing an Agent wanted some item from either location
to use against King or SCLC. Would he not have made a surreptitious
entry to obtain it?
A. No such entry was made at any time to my knowledge. I say
this very firmly because the Bureau policy before the late
1950s concerning such a technique had changed.

Q. (By.Jack Smith) What do you mean by saying this policy
had changed?
A. During my period with the Bureau, from the beginning, such
activity had to be approved by the Bureau, with reference to
it thonged
ime the policy had changed to
when
the period of time,
A
obtaining authority was virtually impossible.
↑
↑
therefore
12
the extent that
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 13

6
Q. Prior to 1965 in what way. were you involved in any
surreptitious entry?
A. Mr. Seidel, as I stated earlier I have been informed that
I was released by the AG to testify before this Committee
concerning King, SCLC, Stanley Levison, and matters related
thereto.

Q. Did you develop any information establishing CP connection
on the part of King?
A. Not beyond his affiliation with Levison and the other
individuals previously mentioned.
YQ. What was the objective of the investigation of King and
۱۰
SCLC?
A. To determine possible communist influence of King and SCLC.

Q. If, as you state, you did not develop information that King
was a communist, was not this investigation in vain?
"A. Not in my opinion. It is correct it did not establish that
King was a CP member.
It did establish that he was in contact
with individuals then having past or present CP affiliation which
pages.
was the objective of the investigation. See ITEM III. of attached.

Q. Do you remember during 1963 King alleged that Bureau Agents
Complaints
were not responsive to civil rights complications in the vicinity
of Albany, Georgia, and other South Georgia locations?
NW-88614 Docld:32989606 Page 14
13

fu
ITEM
II of
لا
1
A. Yes, I recall news media information concerning such
allegations.
Q.
!
In response to these allegations by King, do you remember
that Mr. Hoover became very concerned with King's allegations?
the
A. Yes. I definitely remember news media indicating that
Mr. Hoover was extremely upset.
۸
Q. You have stated you were assigned to King and SCLC case in
May, 1965, is that correct?
A. Yes.

Q. You previously stated these cases were initiated 12 months
or perhaps a little longer prior to your receiving them. Is
that correct?
A. Yes.

Q. Was there not then a connection between Director Hoover's
concern with King's statements in 1963 regarding lack of
attention to civil rights matters in South Georgia by the Bureau
and the initiation of the investigation of King and SCLC?
A. Yes
I did not discuss that matter with Mr. Hoover or
any Bureau official..
attiche Q. Do you deny there was any such connection?
pages A.
with
I cannot deny that there might have been such a connection.
This was a situation in which I recall the news media on more
than one occasion suggested such to be the case.
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 15
14

९. From 1965 until 1971 was there any electronic surveillance
of any other individual or organization in addition to King,
SCLC, and SNCC?
A. To the best of my recollection there were none except as
may have pertained to some strictly criminal investigations with
which I had no connection.

Q. What about prior to 1965?
A. There was one concerning an individual or individuals having
KLAN-King connections believed to have been involved in an earlier
church bombing, I believe in Birmingham, involving the death of
11
several children.

Q. During our interview in Atlanta you stated you did not have
any contact with members of the news media or clergy regarding
King or SCLC. Is that correct?
A. Yes, I did not have any such contact.

५९. What discussion was had with members of the Atlanta Police
Department concerning King, SCLC, and Levison, and what was the
extent of their electronic coverage regarding these matters?
- A. During the period of time I was concerned with King, SCLC,
wire
Levison, I had no discussion with any member of the Atlanta
Police Department concerning these matters. Bureau instructions
regarding these matters or that any discussion was on a strictly
need-to-know basis and I have absolutely no recollection that
members of the Atlanta Police Department fitted into this category.
NW-886.14 Docld:32989606 Page 16
15

I do not have any knowledge as to what electronic surveillance
may ever have been conducted by the Atlanta Police Department.

Q. While in Atlanta you were assigned to what was referred
to as the Security and Racial Squad, is that correct?
A. That is correct.

Q. Essentially this squad was concerned with security matters,
racial matters, is that correct?
A. Yes and it was also concerned with civil rights violations
and election law violations.

Q. In regard to civil rights and election law matters, did
you ever develop any information pertinent to the CP?
A. No.

Q. What Agents do you remember were assigned to that squad?
Charles Harding, Arthur Murtagh?
A. Yes. Those two, Alden Miller, Richard Hamilton,
Richard Davis, Donald Burgess, Randall McGough, Timothy Dorsch,
Charles Haynes.

Q. Who monitored the King and SCLC surveillance?
A. A number of different gentlemen, some of whom were periodically
transferred.

Q. Who were some of those?
A. Donald Burgess, Richard Davis, Brian O'Shea, now deceased.
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 17
16
זי

Q. Who served in a supervisory capacity before Charles
Harding?
"A. Henry Rouse.

Q. Where is he now?
A.
I understand he retired, I do not know where he is located.

Q. What was your involvement with the Bureau's program referred
toras COINTELPRO?
A. Mr. Seidel, as I endeavored to explain on May 12, your
use of that particular terminology did not register with me
at all.

"Q. Recently testimony was given be one or more Bureau officials
1
indicating this program began during the late 1950s and
continued to a fairly recent date. Did not your reports
regarding King, SCLC, or Levison include in their caption
COINTELPRO?
A.
It is not my recollection that they did.

'Q. What about a Klan organization?
A.
I did at various times handle investigations concerning
individual Klan members. I'did not handle the Klan as an
organizational matter. It is my recollection that in reporting
on the activities of an individual Klan member the character
of the case would have been indicated as Ku Klux Klan Racial
Matter.
17
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 18

THIS
WOULD
READ
BETTER
IF
MOVED
TO PAGE
19
V
I feel compelled to apologize if I appear particularly
dense as to the utilization of this phrase COINTELPRO.
If it
was a program operating over a period of years the only explanati on
I can offer at this moment is that conceiably some field offices
imtially
other than Atlanta were involved therein. If this was the
case, Atlanta may well have been included therein subsequent
to my departure.

Q. (John Bailey) When the telephone surveillance was discontinued
on the King residence and on SCLC who took care of that.
A. I do not know.

It should be noted the Committee took a five minute
break approximately 12:05 to 12:10 p.m. ofter which questioning.
Continued.
Following a few very general concluding comments
by Seidel, the writer was given the opportunity to make a
statement. At this point Seidel was advised it was the writer's
understanding that the procedures of this Committee provided for
a witness to subsequently have opportunity to review the transcript
thereof, and that the writer would like to avail himself of
this opportunity. Inquiry was made as to whether this could be
accomplished via registered or certified mail to preclude unnecessary
expense to the Government.

Seidel responded at some length referring to (Section
6b?) of the Committee's rules and regulations which permitted
:
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 19
18

Нел
A
such review in the Committee's office. Any expense thereof assurd
to be borne by the witness. He explained it was not his
perogative to amend the Committee's rules and regulations.
Lüdel
de was not
The writer apologized for asking the question and to m
submitted that had he been furnished a copy of the Committee's
Ne
rules and regulations for a period of time longer than 29
minutes before this Committee convened, it would not have been
necessary to have asked the question.

1 p.m.
The aforementioned session terminated shortly past
ang
Changeo
FROM P 18
19
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 20
Had auch dun
furnished at an
tarlin clati

1
-
Mr. J. B. Adams
1- Mr. J. A. Mintz
1
-
Mr. W. R. Wannall
June 9, 1975
1 Mr. J. G. Deegan
1 Mr. R. L. Shackelford
1
-
-
-
Mr. W. O. Cregar
Mr. S. F. Phillips
for info only; Ber J. AlithiZER's instructions,
5 copies of this interveio sent to OPR-Sopot of fustice,
The Deputy Attorney General
11/22/76-803
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
Attention: K. Willian O'ConnoDATE 10-31-80 BYSPIGSK/89
3 Special Councel for
Intelligence Coordination
1-67-432832 (Personnel File Former SA Alan G. Sentinella)
1 - 100-106670 (Martin Luther King, Jr.)
1-100-392452 (Stanley David Levison)
SFP:ekw
(14)
R4509 M
JB

TELETYPE UNIT
NW 88614 DocId:32989606 Page 21
REC-102
UNRECORDED COPY FILED 1001070
IT HAND Oil
TO AG610-75
62-116875-265
//
GPO: 1975 0569-920

62-116395
1
1
1
1
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED 1
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
OTHERWISE
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
-
-
-
Mr. J. B. Adams
Mr. J. A. Mintz
Mr. W.
Mr. J. G.
.: Deegan CONKIDENTIAI
Mr. R. L. Shackelford
June 9, 1975
1-Mr.W.O.Cregar
1-Mr.S.F.Phillips
U. S. STATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLICENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: TESTIMONY OF RETIRED FBI
SPECIAL AGENT (SA) BEFORE
SSC EXECUTIVE SESSION

Reference is made to the remorandun of this Bureau
Jated May 22, 1975, герorting a statement voluntarily furnished
to the FBI by i'r. Alan G. Sentinella, a retired SA of the FBI.
That stateront concerned the interview of Sentinella by an SSC
Staff Komber on May 12, 1975.

Pursuant to a subpoena, Mr. Sentinella testified
before an Executive Session of the SSC on May 21, 1975, after
which he voluntarily furnished the FBI a statement concerning
his testimony. Set out below is the verbatin text of that
statement.
SDIGSK/Ya
5K/80/10/31/80
CLASS. &EXT. BY
REASON-FCIM II, 1242 3
DATE OF REVIEW
6-9-95
"Alan G. Sentinella'
"Thy 21, 1975

"The following represents the writer's recollection
of testimony given this date before the Senate Select Comittee
(SSC) pursuant to subpoona. The session commenced at 10 a.n.
5/21/75 in Roon 607, former Caroll Arms Hotel. Present was
Sonator Robert Morgan (North Carolina); Lester B. Scidol,
Staff Monber; Ir. Jack Smith, Staff Menber; Mr. John Bailey,
Assistant Minority Counsel, and a male reporter. Sonator
Morgan placed the writer under oath. Approximately four or
five minutes later Senator brgan excused himself with a general
Files & Com. statement to the effect he had other pressing matters. The entire
-proceedings with only two exceptions vere conducted by Lester B.
Scidel.
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Inv.
Dep. AD Adm.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
aboratory
วท. & Eval. -1
. Inv.
ing
Coun.
one Rm.
Or Sec'y
-
-
67-432832 (Personnel File Former SA Alan G. Sentinella)
100-106670 (Martin Luther King, Jr.)
100-392452 (Stanley David Levison)
SFP:eky
MAIL ROOM (43) TELETYPE UNIT
KM 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 22
BA
1
CONFIDENTIAL
52-11533-
GPO: 1975-569-920

SEMATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SEC)
RE: ZTERVIE OF RETIRED FBI SA DY SSC
CONFIDENTIAL

"Seidel explained the writer was entitled to counsel,
had the privilege of invoking provisions of the Fifth moninent,
and would bave the privilege of making an opening and closing
statement. Seidel inquired whether the writor understood his
rights and the Committee's rules and regulations, a copy of
which he had made available.

'The writer acknowledged receipt of the Committce's
rules and regulations as furnished by Seidel at 9:31 a.m.
5/21/75. He also acknowledged he had been informed of the richt
to counsel but inasmuch as this Committee was not understood
to constitute a grand jury and in the absence of any charges
or allegations of a violation of lau on his part, he did not
insist on the presence of counsel.

"Seidel vas advised that as a former Special Agent
the writer had contacted the Bureau's Legal Counsel Division
and as of this date had been advised by Mr. Paul Daly thereof
that he had been cleared by the Attorney General (AG) to testify
to matters relating to investigation of Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCIC), and Stanley
Levison.

'Seidel vas advised that curing his interview of the
writer in Atlanta, Georgia, on 5/12/75 he had asked a question
as to how long after the assassination of King did the telephone
surveillanco continue on the King residence. On 5/12/75 the
witer responded it was his recollection this coverage continued
until a short time subsequent to the assassination. Following
that interview, the writer recalled that either shortly before
or shortly after that case vas assigned to the writer, the King
Fanily had moved from one residence to another and that
continuation of the telephone surveillance from the former
residence to the latter one vas not authorized. Secondly,
Seidel on 5/12/75 had asked when the King and SCLC cases were
assigned to the writer, the writer recalled such assignment
vas in the early part of 1965; that it was now the writer's
recollection this assignment ras made in lay, 1965.
INW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 23
-
2-
FRONE SENTIAL

SE AYE SELECT COSTS OF HELLICENJE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RE: ENTERVIEN OF RETIRED FBI SA DY SSC
-

"Sot forth below are questions askoa by Geidel (unless
othervise indicated) and the writer's answers.
and answers are not set forth chronologically.
These questions

"3. Why was continuance of the telephone surveillance not
continued to the Kings' now residence?

"A. Continuance vas not authorized by the IG.

"Q. What telephone surveillance was there conducted by Atlanta
of Stanley Levicon?

"A. There was no such coverage per se only such as afforded
by contacts made of King or mombors of the SCIC staff by
Levison.

"Q. Was there tolophone surveillance of Levicon in Hou York?

"A. Any contacts of King by Levison while in Nov Yort would
have been covorod.

"Q. Did the Dew York Office raintain telephone surveillance
of Levison?

"A. I do not directly know.

"Q. During the Atlanta intervier you indicated you had rend
Hey York reports concerning Lovibon. Is that correct?

"A. Yes.

"Q. Daring Atlanta interview you indicated you preoumed thesa
reports set forth information concerning Levison from a telephone
surveillance. Is that correct?

"A. Yos.

"Q. What was the basis for your presumption?
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 24
-3

SE ATE SELECT COMMITTEE OU BITELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (CSC)
RO:
INTERVIE! OF RETIRED FBI SA BY SSC-
-

"A. The appropriate administrative portion of such report
vould have so indicated.

"Q. What evidence of CP connections did your investigation
cevelop concerning Levicon?

"A. Mono.

"Q. That information did you have establishing CP connection
ro Levison?

"A.
Such information as was set forth in what was then referred
to as a characterization of Levison. Such characterization vas
a part of each report submitted to the Eureau.

"Q. That was the nature of this characterisation?

"A. I do not remember the precise language. It is my recollection
the statement vas brief and set forth information establishing 등의
past and/or present GP affiliation by Levison.

"Q. Where did you obtain this characterization?

"A. A characterization of an individual or organization at
that time vas propared by the field office concerned, submitted
to Bureau Headquarters for its approval, and such was rado
available to offices having a need-to-know this information.

"Q. Uhat vas the source of this information regarding Levison?

"A. I do not recall that I was ever apprised thereof. A
characterization would not indicate the source of the information,
unless public source information vas utilized, othervise the
reliability or lack thereof of the source or sources would ba
indicated but not their identity.

"Q. What prompted you today to amend your answer on lay the 12th
'75 as to how long telephone surveillance continued on the King
residence? Did you seek the advice or an answer from someone?
NW 88614 Docld:32989606 Page 25
4
DENTAL

SEVTE SELECT COMMITTEE OF INTELLIGIE.CH ACTIVITIES (SSC)
ÑE: INTORVIET OF RETIRED FBI SA DY SGC
DENTIAL

"A. Only to the extent that subsequent to May the 12th I
conferred with a former Agent, Charles Harding. Prior thorato
it had concerned mo, that my initial answer to that question
for some reason did not impress to as being completely correct.
I mentioned this to Harding and he informed me that my enstor
