Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

The Senate Select Committee (SSC) letter of
July 14, 1975, to K. William O'Connor, Esq., requested
a response to Item #3.

Item #3 is set forth as follows:

"All memoranda and any other materials which
relate to or reflect discussions about the Ku Klux Klan
at the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958, and
all memoranda and any other materials which relate to or
reflect recommendations, proposals, and decisions made
either prior to or following said conference."

A diligent, extensive, exhaustive search was
conducted in an effort to obtain a copy of the minutes
of the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958.
However, this search disclosed no memorandum reflecting
an Executive Conference being held on October 1, 1958.
Executive Conference memoranda for the year 1958 were
reviewed. This review did not disclose any memorandum
which related to discussions about the Ku Klux Klan.

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 1

The Senate Select Committee (SSC) letter of
July 14, 1975, to K. William O'Connor, Esq., requested
a response to Item #3.

Item #3 is set forth as follows:

"All memoranda and any other materials which
relate to or reflect discussions about the Ku Klux Klan
at the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958, and
all memoranda and any other materials which relate to or
reflect recommendations, proposals, and decisions made
either prior to or following said conference."

A diligent, extensive, exhaustive search was
conducted in an effort to obtain a copy of the minutes
of the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958.
However, this search disclosed no memorandum reflecting
an Executive Conference being held on October 1, 1958.
Executive Conference memoranda for the year 1958 were
reviewed. This review did not disclose any memorandum
which related to discussions about the Ku Klux Klan.

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 2

UNITED STATES GOI NMENT
Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 9/23/64

FROM : SÁC, JACKSONVILLE

SUBJECT: COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
INTERNAL SECURITY
DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS.
(TWO-WAY RADIO UNITS)

ReBulet 9/15/64.

The Jacksonville Office has carefully noted the
obvious intent of reBulet and agrees that there is a real
strong 'possibility for taking some counter-intelligence
action against the Klan through this medium.

was re-contacted and he stated at the
present time there is no additional information concerning
the use of two-way radios nor has the local Klan in Jackson-
ville formulated any code. This would indicate that at the
present time, while a number of local Klansmen have radios,
there is no opportunity to introduce deceptive transmissions
as the Kien has no "missions" on the planning board. The
above informant has reported that it is anticipated addi-
cional Klansmen will purchase zore two-way radio equipment
which would be indicative of an expansion in plans of the
Klan to use this method of communication. To date there has
been no operation of the Klan where two-way radio communica-
tions have played an integral part.

This office through its informants, particularly
will remain alert and will promptly advise the
Bureau whenever information is received indicating the Klan
has a sizeable "mission" in the planning stages wherein
radios will play an important part. Depending upon the
purpose of the "mission" plans could be formulated for some
deceptive attacks on the Klan itself.

NW-88608-DocId:32989629 32989629_Page Page 3

NITED STATES GOT NMENT
Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 9/23/64

FROM : SÁC, JACKSONVILLE

SUBJECT: COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
INTERNAL SECURITY
DISRUPTION OF HATE CROUPS
(TWO-WAY RADIO UNITS)

ReBulet 9/15/64.

The Jacksonville Office has carefully noted the
obvious intent of reBulet and agrees that there is a real
strong possibility for taking some counter-intelligence
action against the Klan through this medium.

J143B was re-contacted and he stated at the
present time there is no additional information concerning
the use of two-way radios nor has the local Klan in Jackson-
ville formulated any code. This would indicate that at the
present time, while a number of local Klansmen have radios,
there is no opportunity to introduce deceptive transmissions
as the Klan has no "missions" on the planning board. The
above informant has reported that it is anticipated addi-
tional Klanszen will purchase more two-way radio equipment
which would be indicative of an expansion in plans of the
Klan to use this method of communication. To date there has
been no operation of the Klan where two-way radio communica-
tions have played an integral part.

This office through its informants, particularly
18-6, will remain alert and will promptly advise the
Eureau whenever information is received indicating the Klan
has a sizeable "mission" in the planning stages wherein
radios will play an important part. Depending upon the
purpose of the "mission" plans could be formulated for some
deceptivé attacks on the Klan itself.

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 4

TO
FROM
UNITED STATES GOVE MENT
Memorandum
: DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 10-15-64

SAC, JACKSON

SUBJECT: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,
INTERNAL SECURITY,
DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

Re Bureau letter to Atlanta dated 9-2-64.

To implement a counterintelligence program as
outlined in referenced letter, this office has been and will
continue to penetrate klan and hate organizations with
continued informant coverage. This is the first step to learn
the complete organizational structure, members, their activities,
sympathizers and followers, action they plan, including actions
of violence and distruction of property.
:
Once their activities, etc., are determined through
informant coverage proper action can be taken to disrupt and
neutralize their activities and efforts can be directed to
frustrate their plans. In addition, those specifically
responsible for unlawful actions are determined through informant.
coverage.

Informant coverage will be specifically concentrated
on the White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan since this is the
largest and most important of the klan groups in Mississippi.
Other pertinent organizations considered for counterintelligence
action are:

Mississippi Knights of the Ku Klux Klan.
United Klans of America, Inc.,
Knights of the Ku Klux Klan.
Americans for the Preservation of the White Race.

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 5
......

The pertinent individuals to first consider are the
They
state officers of the White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan.
are:
:
SAMUEL BOWERS, Laurel Mississippi, Imperial Wizard
JULIUS HARPER, Crystal Springs, Mississippi, Grand
Dragon
BILLY BUCKLES; Roxie, Mississippi, Grand Giant
A.-C. HARRINGTON, Ruth, Mississippi, State Organizer
ERNEST GILBERT, Brookhaven, Mississippi, Chief of
the Klans Bureau of Investigation(KBI)
PAUL FOSTER, Natchez, Mississippi, State Chaplain
ACE WEATHERS, Hattiesburg; Mississippi, Contact
Leader for the County and Secretary

Informant coverage will be supplemented by technical
installations where practical. Specifically, it has been
learned through an informant that a klan group holds meetings
in a building especially built for this purpose in Copiah
County. These meetings are held on a weekly basis. The
building is in a rural area several miles from the nearest town
and has access by only one road. During meetings guards are
placed at strategic points outside the building to insure
complete privacy. An appropriate survey is being made to
determine the feasibility of a technical installation in this
building. The Bureau will be advised by separate communication
regarding this. Other logical points are being determined for
this type of coverage.

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTION

1. Liaison is established with the governor's office
to bring pressure to bear on local officials, such as mayors,
chiefs of police, sheriffs, etc., to solve recent bombings,
church burnings, and other acts of violence.
ge
-NW-88608-Docld:32989629_Page_6
2

EXAMPLE:

Jackson teletype to the Bureau dated 10-21-54
captioned UNSUBS; EXPLOSION ON LAWN OF RESIDENCE OF MATOR
JOHN NOSSER, NATCHEZ, MISSISSIPPI, 9-25-64, stated that an
Investigator of the Mississippi Highway Safety Patrol(MHSP)
advised he was instructed by Governor PAUL-BJOHNSON to
inform Adams-County Sheriff ODELL-ANDERS that the governor
was seriously considering sending the National Guard into
Adass County to close down all gambling and liquor activity
in the county. Sheriff -ANDERS advised he is in the process
of contacting all gambling and liquor establishments in Adams
County to inform operators that if pertinent information regarding
Natchez bombings are not in his possession by October 15 he
will close all such establishments on October 16..

The Jackson Office will, in each instant that presents
itself in other localities and counties, arrange for similar
action and follow through on each.

2. Repeated contacts and constant interviews of
known and suspected klan members are being conducted each
Saturday. This has been done since July, 1964, and is being
continued. This has a three fold purpose. It lets the klansmen
know the FBI is interested and will be around. It also enables
FBI to know their whereabouts on that day, become better
acquainted with their habits and gain more background information
regarding the person being interviewed. In several instances
during such interviews it has been possible to convert certain
klensmen into informants. During interviews of klansmen who
are completely unco-operative and who want to know how we got
their name and why they are being interviewed we can flip
through the cards and pick out a name of another klansman who
is completely unco-operative. This is a disruptive tactic
which can breed suspicion among themselves.

i
NW-88608 Docld:32989629 Page 7
3

3. Consideration is being gien to invite the State
Police to make raids at known klan meetings.
The 2000 a
of course, will not be invited to participate since
most likely in on the klan meetings. MHS? Investigators at
McComb have indicated they seemed interested in this sort of
thing and it is believed this will have the backing of the
governor since he has indicated such to them. This type of
thing, of course, will be used at places where technical
installations are not feasible or productive.

4. Will participate with the governor in press
releases on the arrests of klansmen when appropriate. This
has been done in the recent arrests in McComb, Mississippi,
in connnection with recent bombings in that area.
..
2.

5. Information has been developed through an informant
that a faction of the klan is interested in putting another
man in office rather than the present person. More information
is being obtained on this so as to exploit all possibilities
and create dissention among the leaders, and by doing so the
opportunity may present itself to have the informant put in a
high office.

The above is some of the potential counterintelligence
action contemplated by this office. It is being studied on a
day to day basis. The Bureau will be furnished with complete
details on all the above plans as the opportunities are made
and present themselves, prior to any specific action being
taken by this office.

ACTION GROUPS

Recent actions of violence in McComb, Mississippi,
were for the most part believed to be carried out by an "action
group". As a result of an intensive investigation and informant
coverage, 11 men were arrested. One had a membership card in
the Ku Klux Klan and another a card for membership in the
"Americans for the Preservation of the White Race". Some

NW-88608-DocId:32989629 Page 8
4

acts of violence such as bombings are, accord
planned with great secrecy by small gro
determine which ones do the job. Often crini,
ochers not officially under klan orders, pretend to represent
the klan as a cover for acts of violence.
>
Recommendations for specific counterintelligence
action will be submitted by separate communications and the
status letter required will be submitted beginning 1-1-65.

NW 88608 Docld:32989629-Page-9-
5

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 10/12/64

FROM: SAC, CHARLOTTE

SUBJECT: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
INTERNAL SECURITY
DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

ReBulet 9/2/64 to Atlanta and other offices.
It is noted this letter lists as one of the target organizations,
as No. 7 on page 2, the Independent Klavern, Fountain Inn, S. C.-
Since this organization is no longer active or in existence, it
is suggested it be deleted from this list.

Since the major organization in Charlotte Division
is the United Klans of America, Inc., of which Birmingham is
origin, a copy of this letter is being designated to Birmingham
for information.

The following represents the consensus of Charlotte
Agents familiar with Klan activity:

1. Disruptive activity should not be undertaken at
a particular Klavern, as a general rule, unless there is
sufficient well established informant coverage to be able to
tell the effect of the action when instituted. Such action
would probably serve to "tighten up" the organization and make
it more difficult to get an informant in thereafter,
;

2. It is considered doubtful that newspaper publicity,
of only a generally unfavorable nature against the Klan organi-
zation, is effective in reducing new applicants or causing any
large number of present members to drop out. The "Charlotte
Observer," which has wide distribution throughout North and
South Carolina, published in August and September, 1964, a series
of articles, copies of which were sent the Bureau by Charlotte
letter of 9/15/64. These arifeles ridiculed the United Klans

NW 88608 Docid:32989629-Page-10-

of America, Inc., in North Carolina, and published both photos
and names of a number of members. So far as has been learned
from informants, this had very little adverse effect upon the
organization. It was alleged that two to five members were
discharged from their jobs, or warned about continuing member-
ship, but the identities of these alleged persons is not known.
North Carolina Grand Dragon JAMES R. JONES has stated, both
publicly and privately to informants, that this publicity was
very valuable to the growth of the organization. One informant
reported that the day after the articles published his name as
a local leader, three persons contacted him and applied for
membership, stating they had not previously known whom to contact.

It is considered that publicity of this type generally
deters from joining only those persons who would not be
interested in joining in the first place. It is believed that
a large proportion of those persons who are potential members
are seeking status and recognition, and publicity is no deterrent
to them; it makes them feel important and members of an important
group.

The major apparent effect of the series of newspaper
articles referred to has been a tightening up of security, and
refusal of leaders to allow newspaper photos of individual
Klansmen to be taken at public rallies.

3. Disruptive activity, wherever possible, should be of
a nature which does not expose the fact that the Bureau, or the
"Federal Government", is behind the activity. It is believed
that open action, to a large extent, can backfire and create
resentment and sympathy. It must be remembered that Klan
membership, in many sections, does not by any means carry the
odium that alleged Communist membership or sympathy does in
almost any section of society.

4. Along this same line, there is probably no point in
trying disruptive activity, at least not at this stage, on a
local Klan group which is small, inactive, and peaceful. Any
such activity which is not completely discreet and concealed
would likely have the effect of stirring it up.

5. By letter of 9/26/64, Charlotte furnished the Bureau
a sample of a lapel pin which was adopted at the Imperial

2.
NW 88608 Docid:32989629 Page 11

Klonvocation of United Klans of America at Birmingham on
9/5-6/64. This is to be sold to members for $2 each and
there is apparently considerable demand for it. Since it is
not apparent to the unitiated that it has anything to do
with "the Klan," it is expected that members will wear it.
openly as a secret recognition signal. If it does become
widely adopted and worn, consideration should then be given to
giving widespread publicity to the fact of what it represents.
This should have the result of discouraging some persons who
do not want their Klan membership publicly known.

6. It is considered that possibly the most effective
way of discouraging membership, or causing existing members
to withdraw, is to establish that someone in the organization
is getting rich off it, or embezzling the proceeds. Charlotte
is endeavoring to develop information along these lines, but
nothing specific has yet been developed.

7.
**
The following are suggested tactics that appear
useful on a selected basıs against individual Klansmen,
particularly those whose employers might object to their Klan
membership:

a. Anonymous letter or phone call to the employer
telling of the Klan membership.

b. Enter on behalf of the member a subscription to
the "Fiery Cross," United Klans of America publication, and have
it mailed to his employment.

C. When a particular member is away from home at a
Klavern meeting, have a female phone his home and indicate he
was to meet her and is late. This might have the effect of
making it difficult for him to get away from home at night
thereafter. This should be limited to particular individuals
who are considered potential ones to stir up trouble in a Klavern.

3.
-NW-88608 Doeld:32989629 Page 12

8. ROBERT-ECHOLS SEOGGINS, Aka., Charlotte file-105-991
Bureau file-157-1530, is South-Carolina Grand-Dragon of United
Klans of America. Charlotte reports by SA JOHN-ALDEN MUNN,
1/31/64 and 3/27/64, show that he is receiving over $300 per
month from the Veterans Administration as a-100 percent
disabled veteran. At the same time he operates a plumbing
business and is active in United Klans of America, making
public speeches, etc. Charlotte furnished extra copies of
those reports to the Bureau, with the suggestion furnishing
them to VA be considered.

It is suggested consideration be given to asking the
VA to re-evaluate his disability rating, in view of his employment
and activities. It is believed this should be done on a SCG
level, to reduce the possibility of-SCOGGINS learning that such
a suggestion came from the FBI.

9. "Action Groups." No particular such groups, given
to violence, are known within Klan organizations in Charlotte
territory. As the Bureau is aware, United Klans of America has
instituted what it calls "Security Guards," who wear military
type uniforms and have military ranks. These function at
public rallies for the purpose of keeping order, watching for
"spies," etc. It is expected that if violence is undertaken,
these will probably be the ones to do it, but no such under-
takings have been learned.

Specific individual recommendations for counter-
intelligence action will be submitted by subsequent letters as
developed.

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 13
尘。

MAY: COMO
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

: DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 10/13/64

ROM SAC, LITTLE ROCK

SUBJECT: COINTELPRO

ReBulet to Atlanta and Other Offices, 9/2/64.

Set out below are an analysis and recommendations
under captioned program.

NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY (NSRP)
:
The Arkansas branch of NSRP has been inactive
in the State of Arkansas for the past year with the excep-.
tion of placing on the Arkansas ballot candidates for
President and Vice President of the United States, It is
not recommended that any action be taken against this gro up
at this time.
:
ASSOCIATION OF ARKANSAS KLANS
OF THE KU KLUX KLAN
(AAK)

The AAK in Arkansas is made up of three klaverns
Iccated at Little Rock, Texarkana, and Pine Bluff; and
it has no affiliation with any national klan group. There
are no "action" groups within any of these three klaverns.
The three klaverns do not own or lease any property for
meeting places. The four Little Rock members usually
meet in the home of a member. The Texarkana Klavern has
not held any klavern meetings as such in several months.
The Pine Bluff Klavern meetings vary from residences to
business places of klavern members.

State meetings are held at irregular intervals
on an average of about once per month or less. There is
no regular meeting place for the state meetings, which are
held in various Arkansas towns including towns in which
there are no klaverns. The state meetings are attended

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 14

V
by from one to five members of each of the three
klaverns and are well covered by informants. The State
Grand-Dragon-BILL-WILLIAMS has continually cautioned
members against violence and any type of illegal activities.
None of the klaverns have engaged in violence.

1. LITTLE ROCK KLAVERN

Of the four members who attend weekly meetings
JOR JY FARMER, who is considered the
head of this snail group, draws a pension from the Federal
Government and, according to informants, is afraid to
engage in any illegal activity or to let his name be used
in connection with the klan for fear of losing his pension.
The two informants maintain the full confidence of the
other two members. In recent months the klavern ran a
series of small ads in a Little Rock daily newspaper in
an effort to renew interest and gain new members. The
klavern received a number of responses, but no action
whatsoever has been taken by the klavern to take in any
new members. The klavern has no crganized activity other
than the weekly meetings described by informants as
being "bull sessions" with the principal topic being.
politics.

No recommendation for counterintelligence is
being made concerning the Little Rock Klavern.

2. TEXARKANA KLAVERN
:
This klavern has not held any klavern meetings
as such in several months, and it appears that the
principal reason for the lack of meetings was the inter-
view of members and leaders concerning the assassination
of President KENNEDY. Klavern representatives regularly.
attend state meetings, one reason being that State Grand
Dragon BILL WILLIANS, who officiates at state meetings,
is a member of the Texarkana Klavern. Of the five or
six members who from time to time attend state meetings,
two are informants. On 10/1/64
advised that the
Grand Dragon had stated that hereafter Texarkana Klavern
members will meet with the Bivins
Klavern of the AAK.

-
Kildare, Texas,
NW 88608-Docid:32989629-Page-15-
-2-

Grand Dragon. WILLIAMS, according to informants,
is active in politics in Bowie County, Texas, is a former
member of the Board of Regents of Texarkana Junior College,
Texarkana, Pewas, and in recent months as
for election to the Board of Regents of that college and
defeated as a candidate for the City Council of Texarkana,
Texas. He cannot afford to become involved in any illegal
activities because of his activities in legitimate enter-
prises. He has continually cautioned Texarkana Klavern
members as well as members of other klaverns attending
state meetings against any violence and/or illegal
activities.

No recommendation is being made for counterintel-
ligence against the Texarkana Klavern except as it is
effected by a recommendation set out hereafter under the
Pine Bluff Klavern.

3. PINE BLUFF KLAVERN

The Pine Bluff Klavern has a membership of approxi-
mately twenty to twenty-five. It meets once a week in
different business locations of its members, and average
weekly attendance is twelve. Among the twelve, one.or
two informants meet with them and furnish full coverage
of their activities.

The klavern's main activity has been to dis-
courage integration by legal means and to get members
elected to school board positions. The klavern collected
the funds and donated the money for the campaign expense
of two of its members who ran for a position on the Pine
Bluff School Board and the Dollarway School Board. These
two members made a miserable showing and were defeated.

The klavern was behind and organized the National
Patriots League (NPL) to further its non-integration
program publicly. The Exalted Cyclops, or president, of
the Klavern is chairman of the NPL. The NPL actually is
a front organization for the klavern. The main activity
of the NPL vas to organize a private country club, which
is known as the Butran Country Club. The purpose of the

NW 88608 Docld: 32989629-Page 16
-3-

:
!
:
club was to build a swimming pool for white only.
construction of the pool itself was complotce but not
sufficiently to place it in use this se
Kont
in Butram Country Club is $25. The majority of the
members are not aware of the fact that the klavern was
behind its organization. Membership in the Butram Country
Club was easily obtained as the public pool for whites
and public pool for Negroes were both closed during the
summer of 1964 when Negroes attempted to integrate the
white pool. This left no public pool open in Pine Bluff.
Re, vice president of the klavern, donated the
land for the Butram Country Club; as he owns land sur-
rounding the club, he will benefit financially from the
sale of this land for building lots. The NPL has also
distributed a limited number of leaflets publicly dis-
couraging peope from patronizing certain restaurants and
businesses which had hired or served Negroes,
: Members of the klavern were responsible for
forming a John Birch Society Chapter in Pine Bluff, and
a klavern member is leader of this chapter. Approximately
eight to ten people attend the monthly meetings of the
John Birch Society Chapter; and of the men who attend,
all are klavern members with the exception of one man.
Members of the klavern completely control and dominate
the John Birch Society Chapter in Pine Bluff. They,
however, only conduct John Birch Society business. Like-
wise, the members of the klavern further the John Birch
Society program through the klavern.

Members of the klavern are working individually
in politics for the re-election of Governor ORVAL-E.
FA-UBUS and for the election of BARRY-GOLDWATER:

The klavern has not advocated any violence but
on occasion has cautioned its members against violence.
As an example, klavern members were cautioned to stay.
away from Ray's Truck Stop, a location which Negroes were
attempting to integrate, in the spring of 1964 so that
no violence would occur.

Members of the klavern recently distributed a
Ku Klux Klan (KKK) leaflet seeking new members and
NW-88608-Docld:32989629-Page-17-
-4-

stating requests for applications be directed to P. O.
Box 1182, Pine Bluff. In this leaflet it was pointed
out that the KKK was striving for a lawful settlement
of the difficulties brought on by the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored People (NAAC) and
that it is opposed to violence. This leaflet further set
forth that this was a chartered, legalized movement and
it is no more illegal to be a member of it than to be a
member of other organizations.

At various times in the past the klavern has
attempted to organize "action" groups within the klavern,.
but on each occasion the project has died from lack of
interest.

In line with Bureau policy of dissemination of
information, the main activities regarding the Pine Bluff
Klavern have been disseminated confidentially to Chief
Lof Police NORMAN.D. YOUNG, Pine Bluff, (NA) on a regular
basis. Chief. YOUNG-has exerted every effort to keep down
the possibility of violence. Through his confidential
scurces he is also well aware of the identities of the
klavern members and their activities. He personally
has warned particur klavern members against any violence
and has stated they will be met with immediate arrest
if any violence occurs. As an example, Chief-YOUNG was
advised through his own confidential source of the time
and location of the klavern meeting on the night of
October 5, 1964. Chief YOUNG sent a lieutenant of his
department in uniform to check the location, record
license numbers, and to be seen checking the meeting so
that the klavern members would know that he was checking
on them. This has had a strong influence on making the
klavern follow a line of legal activity. It has also
resulted in the more responsible leading citizens of the
community being made aware of certain klavern members,
causing these klavern members to be discredited in the
eyes of the public. This was borne out in the recent
school board election on 9/29/64 when two klavern members,
one of whom is J. F. BUTRAM, were miserably defeated.

The klavern has during the past few months
urged its members to solicit and obtain new members.
The ineffectiveness of their program is shown by the

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 18
-5-
:

fact that only one new member was initiated,
member is a non-organizational infor
Rock Division. Likewise, as a result of the XX leaゴー
lets distributed encouraging people to write for appli-
cations they have received only two letters; and neither
of the writers have become a member. The leaflet has
met with complete failure in its effort to build up its
membership.

At this time the following are the only specific
counterintelligence action being recommended:
1

1. An anonymous letter be mailed to the National
Office of John Birch Society, Belmont, Massachusetts,
pointing out that the KKK is in full control of the John
Birch Society Chapter in Pine Bluff. In this letter
specifically mention the name of one or two of the more
leading klan members who are also leading the John Birch
Society in Pine Bluff.
:
The
2. An anonymous letter be mailed to CHARLES-D:-
CUTHBERTSON, Exartes-Cyclops of the Pine Bluff Klavern,
and a copy mailed to BILL WILLIAMS, State-Grand Dragon
with the letters to be mailed to the Post Office Box in
Pine. Bluff and in Texarkana, Arkansas, of the AAK.
letter should be a complaining letter from a member who
was active in the past and who recently found one of the
KKK leaflets in his automobile which leaflet encouraged
membership. The letter would let them know why he has
not rejoined; it would point out that he dropped out
because of such leadership as JBUTRAM, who has used
the klan for personal gain as BUFRAM had a residence on
his property remodeled at klavern expense and then made
the klavern stop holding meetings there; that BUTRAM
has now donated land for the Butram Country Club so that
he can sell his surrounding land for building lots at
an
exorbitant price. The letter should also set forth
the fact he heard SUTRAM was discharged from the Army
for mental deficiency (moron). This letter should be
mailed from Little Rock.

Interviews of klan members and leaders in the
past (for example, at the time of the assassination of
President KENNEDY and on particular bombing matter cases)
-6-
:
;
:
NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 19

have had deterring effect on the kian. For example,
the Texarkana Klavern has not held a klavern meeting
as such since that tire. One Little Rock member has
dropped out as a result of being intorviswod; and,
according to an informant, this member is a "changed
nan," meaning that he is not as radical as previously.
In interviews with members of the Pine Bluff Klavern,
i agents have not met with any hostility and have been
treated cordially and with respect. Individual members
during these interviews have indicated they are opposed
to violence and advocate proceeding in a legal manner.
A number of the members have said that through political
pressure and voting are the only ways any change can
be made. However, they have stated they are still avid
segregationists and do not condone race mixing in any
manner。

When and if it appears that interest may be
renewing in the AAK in Arkansas, consideration will be
given to another interview program. It is noted, that
particular klan members are interviewed on a spasmodic
basis in regard to leads from surrounding field offices
on bombing matter cases, and this has had a tendency to
deter any violent activity on the part of klavern members.

-NW-88608-Doeld:32989629 Page 20.
-7-

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

NOM 2. SAC, LITTLE ROCK

SUBJECT: COINTELPRO
:
DATE: 10/13/64

ReBulet to Atlanta and Other Offices, 9/2/64.

Set out below are an analysis and recommendations..
under captioned program.

NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY (NSRP)

The Arkansas branch of NSRP has been inactive :
in the State of Arkansas for the past year with the excep-
tion of placing on the Arkansas ballot candidates for
President and Vice President of the United States. It is
not recommended that any action be taken against this group
at this time.
:
ASSOCIATION OF ARKANSAS KLANS
OF THE KU KLUX KLAN
(ΑΑΚ)

The AAK in Arkansas is made up of three klaverns
located at Little Rock, Texarkana, and Pine Bluff; and
it has no affiliation with any national klan group. There
are no "action" groups within any of these three klaverns.
The three klaverns do not own or lease any property for
meeting places. The four Little Rock members usually
meet in the home of a member. The Texarkana Klavern has
not held any klavern meetings as such in several months.
The Pine Bluff Klavern meetings vary from residences to
business places of klavern members.

State meetings are held at irregular intervals
on an average of about once per month or less. There is
no regular neeting place for the state meetings, which are
held in various Arkansas towns including towns in which
there are no klaverns. The state meetings are attended

NW 88608 Docld:32989629 Page 21

4
1
:
:
by from one to five members of