JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 10/21/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10206
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1137

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, TP
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 11/04/66
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : LST, BKG, RES, REL, TRA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/21/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318
Docld:34489575 Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI
Date: 11/4/66

Transmit the following in (Type in plaintext or code)
Via AIRTEL AIR MAIL
(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SUBJECT: SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka
AR
(00: TP)

Re New Orleans airtel to Director captioned
"LA COSA NOSTRA" dated 10/31/66.

Enclosed for Miami is a xerox copy of referenced
New Orleans airtel.

For information of New Orleans, SANTO TRAFFICANTE,
JR. spends a considerable portion of time at his Miami,
Florida residence, 523 Northeast 71st Street and it is
suggested that New Orleans in the future when furnishing
information concerning TRAFFICANTE, include Miami as
recipient.

For further information New Orleans TRAFFICANTE'S
wife JOSEPHINE was involved in an automobile accident in
Tampa 5/18/66 and was confined St. Joseph's Hospital,
Tampa from dateoof accident until 6/19/66.

TP 120-C, who has daily access to TRAFFICANTE'S
Tampa residence, on 6/11/66, indicated no visitors had
been at the residence during the past few days. It is
further noted that TRAFFICANTE's married daughter, her
husband, and their five year old son also maintain their
home at TRAFFICANTE's Tampa residence.
3 - Bureau
2 - New Orleans
1 - Miami (Enc. 1)(RM) (92-88)REC 22 27/3/
2 - Tampa
JAA:lm
RT NOV 20180603

HA NOV 1966

Special Agent in Charge Sent M Per

NW 78318
Docld:34489575 Page 2

ΤΡ 92-1

In addition, records airport parking, Miami
Airport, indicate that TRAFFICANTE's automobile was not
on the parking lot during the period of 5/27/66 to 6/4/66,
which would suggest from past experience that TRAFFICANTE
was actually present in the Miami, Florida area from
5/27/66 to 6/4/66. Likewise, records indicate that
TRAFFICANTE's automobile was on the parking lot from 6/4/66
until 6/10/66 which would suggest that TRAFFICANTE was not
in Miami. Possibility therefore exists that MARCELLO'S
visit mentioned in referenced airtel would have been to
TRAFFICANTE's Miami residence instead of his Tampa residence.

Furthermore, TP 120-C on 7/6/66 indicated that
TRAFFICANTE, his wife, their daughter, and her family had
spent some of the July 4th weekend at least at TRAFFICANTE'S
St. Petersburg Beach residence located at 3610 El Centro.
Likewise, records of the airport parking lot, Miami, in-
dicate that TRAFFICANTE's automobile was parked on the airport
parking lot from 6/27/66 to 7/2/66 at which time it was
removed from the lot at 12:52 p.m. Records further re-
flect that the car again appeared on the parking lot at 6:07
7/2/66 and remained on the parking lot until 11:22 p.m.,
7/6/66. From TRAFFICANTE's habit pattern, it thus appears
that he was out of the Miami area from 6/27/66 to the after-
noon of 7/2/66 and then from evening of 7/2/66 to 7/6/66.

New Orleans's attention is called to New Orleans
file 162-156 captioned "AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA" and New
Orleans file 92-320 captioned "JOSEPH MARCELLO, JR." which
indicates some contact between LAZZARA and MARCELLO and it
is an established fact that AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA is a
very close associate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

LEADS

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

New Orleans is requested to furnish Tampa suitable
photographs of CARLOS MARCELLO, JOSEPH MARCELLO, JR., and
their wives for exhibition to TP 120-C and other sources
familiar with TRAFFICANTE's associates. Only photograph at
present available to Tampa of CARLOS MARCELLO is that con-
tained on LCN membership index card.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS

2

NW 78318
Docld:34489575 Page 3
