#
File #:

62-1163.95

Serial Scope:

401 THRU 403

406 THRU 421

408

423,424

4254 THRU 428

NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1,962 EDITION
GSA PIR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams MDR 16 DATE: 7/3/75

FROM : Legal Counsel ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE BY SP2
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

At 9:55 a.m. on July 3, 1975, former Assistant Director
Ivan Conrad telephonically advised me that he has been contacted and
requested to appear for interview by the Senate Select Committee during
the week of July 7, 1975, concerning Martin Luther King. Mr. Conrad
expressed great concern about his appearance for such an interview and
requested guidance.

I told him that the Director was cooperating with the Committee
in their inquiry, but that in regard to matters that would identify informants,
affect current operations, or compromise very sensitive techniques any
testimony may require limitation to members of the Committee or to the
Chairman rather than staff interviewers.

Mr. Conrad then asked whether he should respond in the
event questions were raised concerning sensitive matters regarding the
U.S. mails. I told him that in the event questions were asked which
appeared to be beyond the scope of the subject matter indicated for the
interview, or which in his judgment would involve the three areas of
concern expressed above, it would be appropriate for him to request a
recess for the purpose of consulting with the Bureau.

Mr. Conrad inquired as to his possible criminal liability and
whether the FBI would furnish him counsel. I explained to him the difficulties
imposed by conflicts of interest in that regard and that the FBI could not
furnish him personal counsel. I told him that if he felt the need for advice
as to his personal status, he should consider obtaining the services of a
personal counsel. He said that he would consider that and that although he
was specifically not making a request at this time, he would consider in the
future requesting that the Bureau pay for his private counsel

1-Mr. Wannall REC-88
1- Mr. Cregar JUL 15 1975
1- Mr. Hotis (Attn: Mr. Daly)
1-Mr. Mintz

JAM:mfd (5) CONTINUED - OVER

84 31 1975
INMW 88608, DocId:32989618 Page 2
Buy US. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

Memorandum to Mr. Adams
Re: Senate Select Committee

Mr. Conrad was cordial and said he understood fully that
I was not in a position to furnish him legal advice. I suggested that he
contact the Bureau prior to his appearance for the interview in order to be
advised formally as to his release from the Bureau employment agreement
concerning secrecy and he agreed.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

- 2-

NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 3

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27 5010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. W.R. Wannat/RW

FROM W.O. Cregar.

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. J.B. Adams
2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1 - Mr. Hotis)
DATE: 7/24/75
1 - Mr. W.R.Wannall
1 - Mr. W.O. Cregar
1 - Mr. J.P. Thomas

This is to record inquiry received from Mr. Leon
Ulman, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal
Counsel, and recommend response to him.

On 7/22/75, Mr. Ulman called Assistant Director -
Legal Counsel J.A. Mintz to request assistance concerning
an assignment he had been given by the Attorney General (AG)
relating to the current investigation being conducted by the
Senate Select Committee (SSC). In accordance with Mr. Mintz'
referral to our Senstudy project group, Mr. Ulman was contacted
7/22/75 by Supervisor J. P. Thomas. Mr. Ulman said that the
AG had requested his office to prepare, by 7/25/75, the fullest
possible response to the question, "To what extent has the AG
been involved in consideration or approval of policies and
activities of U.S. foreign and military intelligence agencies?"
Mr. Ulman said that he had requested the Criminal Division
of the Department to conduct research on this matter but, being
unfamiliar with foreign intelligence matters, desired to know
whether we could in any way assist him. He was informed that
the FBI is basically not a U.S. foreign intelligence agency.
He responded that some of our operations involve foreign
intelligence and again asked if we could assist. He was told
that we certainly could not furnish any full answer, but would
attempt to see if we could contribute something to his assign-
ment. It was also suggested to Mr. REC-102 Ulman that he consider
contacting Mr. K. William O'Connor, who is coordinating many
aspects of the SSC investigation for the Department, and might
be able to clarify the request or contribute to the response
and that he consider contacting CIA. He indicated he did not
feel that contact with CIA would be productive. It was agithe28 1975
that the inquiry appears to relate to the AG institutionally
rather than to any involvement of the incumbent, Mr. Levi
62-116395 MDR16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
JPT: bkb/lhb/hb HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
(7) DATE 1415/00 BY SPRAEM
CONTINUED OVER

NW 88608 Đold:32989618 Page 4
---

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

Inquiry of Intelligence Division personnel, who
might have pertinent information, developed the following
information which might be offered to Mr. Ulman: (1) The
only specific instance in which we are aware that the AG is
involved in consideration or approval of activities of the
FBI regarding foreign intelligence is that when we desire to
effect electronic coverage, for ourselves or on request of
another agency, for the purpose of obtaining positive foreign
intelligence information or foreign counterintelligence
purposes, we seek the approval of the AG. Other agencies
might do likewise. (2) The National Security Act of 1947,
approved by the President 7/26/47, created the National Security
Council (NSC). NSC Intelligence Directive (NSCID) No. 1 was
revised on 7/7/49 and added the FBI as a member of the
Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC). By a subsequent revision
of NSCID No. 1 on 9/15/58, IAC became the United States
Intelligence Board (USTB), with the FBI still a member. USIB
concerns itself with foreign intelligence matters. However,
inasmuch as the FBI itself is a member of USIB, and historically
the FBI has not coordinated USIB matters with the AG the
Bureau's role in USIB is not considered pertinent to the
inquiry regarding the involvement of the AG in foreign intelligence
matters. (3) Our records indicate that prior to the establishment
of the NSC, former FBI Director Hoover recommended that the
AG be a member of the committee which later became the NSC.
Apparently the National Security Act of 1947 did provide for
the AG to attend NSC meetings as a member if the President so
desired. Our records indicate the AG did attend some NSC
meetings as a member during the 1947-48 period. However, by
memorandum 8/19/49, AAG Peyton Ford informed Mr. Hoover that
the AG could no longer attend NSC meetings as a member because
of the amendment to the National Security Act made by Section 3
of Public Law 216, 81st Congress, approved 8/10/49. (4) On
11/5/71, the White House announced the establishment of the

*except in important policy matters CONTINUED OVER
such as the recent revision of
NSCID No. 9.

NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 5
- 2-

---

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

National Security Council Intelligence Committee (NSCIC)
with the AG as a member. The President's 11/5/71 memorandum
stated the NSCIC "will give direction and guidance on national
substantive intelligence needs and provide for a continuing
evaluation of intelligence products from the viewpoint of the
intelligence consumer." Assistant AG Robert Mardian attended
a meeting of NSCIC on 12/14/71 as the AG's representative.
We cannot document it, but the recollection of FBI personnel
involved in NSCIC affairs is that Mr. Mardian reported thereafter
to the AG that NSCIC activities did not concern the Department
and that neither the AG nor Mardian were subsequently involved
in NSCIC affairs. On 4/24/74, the AG was still listed as a
member of NSCIC. However, in August, 1974, FBI inquiry of a
member of the U. S. intelligence committee staff elicited the
opinion that the AG was no longer considered to be a member
of NSCIC because the AG's office had not been participating in
NSCIC affairs or attending its meetings; further, the AG was
not among the addressees of papers being sent out in preparation
for the next NSCIC meeting. However, it appears that the AG
may still be nominally listed as a member of NSCIC. (5) It
might also be useful for Mr. Ulman to consult Mr. Kevin Maroney
of the Internal Security Section of the Department inasmuch as
Mr. Maroney has long been involved in matters relating to
internal security and foreign intelligence, and may be aware
of the extent of the AG's involvement.

ACTION:

Delivered to Ullman
7/24/75.8
With your approval, Office of Legal Counsel will
convey the information in the preceding paragraph to Mr. Ulman,
who said he can be contacted by telephone on 187-2051. He
requested an expeditious response.

TPT

NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 6
- 3 -

---

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

July 18, 1975

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Rofcrence is made to a letter from the SSC dated
July 14, 1975, requesting certain documents and other
information from the FBI.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the
Connittec is a letter from Director, FBI, to Chairnan
Frank Church, SSC, dated July 10, 1975.

A copy of the letter involved is being furnished
for your records.

Enclosures 2

62-110395

1 - The Deputy Attorney Concral
Attention: K. Willian O'Connor
Spccial Councel for
Intelligence Coordination

JJ:cjo
(7) REC-102

5 JUL 25 1975

ENCLOSURE

MDR 16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
BY
DATE
MAIL ROOM
1975
NW 88608 Поld 32989618 Page /
TELETYPE UNIT
GPO 054-545

---

SECRET
1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

July 16, 1975

Honorable Frank Church
Chairman, Select Committce to
Study Covernmental Operations
With Lospect to Intelligence Activities
United States Senate
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Chairman:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAWED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHO
OTHERWISE

Reference is made to a letter of Mr. John T. Elliff
of the Senate Select Committco Staff to Mr. K. Willian O'Connor
of the Department of Justice dated July 14, 1975, wheroin onc
of the requests dealt with Operation ORKID.

Duc to the extrenc sensitivity of that operation,
I will discuss it with you at a mutually agreeable time.

11/15/00 MDR 16
Respectfully,
CLASSIFIED BY: SP 2 ALM JEHL
REASON: 1.5 6d, )
DECLASSIFY ON: X

1 - The Attorney General
JWJ:sjm
(7)

Clarence M. Kel
Directo eleNCLOSURE
NCREC-102

5 JUL 25 1975

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep, AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Entell
Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv,
Training
lephone Rm.
actor Sec'y

NOTE: TOP SECRET

ORKID is code name for our program to technically
+ penetrate the new Soviet Embassy complex at Mount Alto,
Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C. (5)

Classified by 3676, XGDS 2 and 3, Indefinite.

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT
NWW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 8
TOP SECRET
Pin
GPO 954-346

---

TE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
BEFORE COMPLETING.
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

TO: Intelligenze Community Staff FROM:
ATTN: Central Index FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

DOCUMENT BRIEFING INTERVIEW TESTIMONY OTHER 7/18/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)
SSC

HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other- 6. CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter
U, C, S, TS or
Codeword)
SSC letter 7/14/75 TS

7. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Intelligence activities, foreign

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Operation Stremely sensitive operation and requested
Senator Church discuss with Director FBI at autually
agreeable tine.

62-116395

FMK: fmk
(4) ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

11/15/00 MDR,16
SP2 AM / EHL TREAT AS YELLOW
16 (C)
DECLASSIFY ORZI

3791(6-75)
NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 9 CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

---

INSTRUCTIONS

* Type or print clearly in ink.

* Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

* Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

* "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

* If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

AMY 8868 Moc/lt/1896118 Page 10

---

1 Mr. J. B. Adams
1- Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 Mr. W. R. Wannall
1- Mr. W. O. Cregar

July 18, 1975

The Attorney Ceneral

Director, FBI

UNITED STATES SENATE GELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to a letter from the GSC dated
July 14, 1975, requesting certain documents and other
information from the FBI.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the
Committee is a letter from Director, FBI, to Chairman
Frank Church, JSC, dated July 18, 1075.

A copy of the letter involved is being furnished
for your records.

Enclosures - 3

02-110395

1 - The Deputy Attorney General
Attention: E. William O'Connor
Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

JWJ:sjm
(7)

NW 88608 Docld:32989618- Page 11
delivered to
Aherry toivell office
ingr. 7/23/75
RTT

Alt
426

---

2- Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1- Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1- Mr. W. R. Wannall
1- Mr. W. O. Cregar

The Attorney General 6/25/75

Director, FBI

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to a letter from the SSC dated
May 14, 1975, and appendices thereto, requesting certain
documents and other information from the FBI,

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the
Committee is an original of a nemorandum which constitutes
a response to cone of the requests. A copy of the memorandum
and a copy of each of the 8: documents responsive to the
Committee's request are being furnished for your records)

In accordance with the request of Mr. K. William
O'Connor, we are deferring to him any action necessary to
obtain appropriate clearance from the White House, prior to
giving the Committee Staff access to the above six documents.

The documents involved and which are being fur-
nished, herewith, are not for forwarding to the SSC inasnuch
as only access for review at FEIIQ is being afforded the
Committee Staff.

Enclosures (10)

62-116395 REC-102

1 The Deputy Attorney General
Attention: K. William O'Connor
Special Counsel for
) ENCLOSURE Intelligence Coordination

JWJ:dan MDR 16
(8)
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 11/15/00 BY PALMIEHC

TOP SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

9AUG 8 1975

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

TELETYPE UNIT
NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 12
✓w.o
GPO 954-546

---

02-110005 June 25, 1975

2- Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1- Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. r. W. O. Cregar

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMITTER
TO STUDY GOVERNIENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DOCUMENTS PIETAINING TO THE "TUSTON PLAN,"
COINTELPRO, AND OTHER PRACTICES AND PROGRAMS

IUSTON PLAN AND RELATED DEVELOPMENTS

Reference is made to letter dated May 14, 1975,
to the Attorney General from the Chairman of captioned
Comittee, and appendices thereto, which requcoted certain
documents and other information fron the FBI.

Appendix C, Fart 1, Iten 2, requested the following:

A letter dated June 20, 1000, Iron Ton Charles
Huston, Staff Assistant to the President, to the Director of
the FDI concerning resources heing targeted toward the
monitoring of foreign communist support of revolutionary
youth activities in the United States, effectiveness of such
resources, gaps in intelligence, and steps which should be
taken to provide maximun coverage.

Iten 3 requested the following:

The response by the FDI to the letter set out in
Iten 2 and all other IDI nomoranda and other materials por-
taining to the correspononce.

Documenta responsive to the Connittee's requent
have been assembled and are available for review at FDIMO
by appropriately cleared SCC porsonnel.

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
JWJ:dan
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs (7)
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO ATTORNEY GENERAL
MDR 16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 11/15/00 BY SPR ALMEH

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT
NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 13
GPO 954-546

---

NOTE:

Unexcised copy of FBI report ontitled "Foreign
Support For Revolutionary Protest Movements in the United States,"
dated 6/30/69 is enclosed. Por telephone conversation of
SA Willian 0. Cregar with Special Counsel K. William O'Connor
on 6/11/75, it was agreed copy of letter dated 6/20/69, from
Ton Charles Huston, Staff Assistant to the President to the
Director should be included in our response to SSC's request
and that Special Counsel O'Connor would obtain appropriate
clearance fron White House to give access to SSC staff. A
rovicy of the filo indicates there is no documented copy as to
the sourcing of paragraphs in the 38 page roport entitled
"Foreign Support For Revolutionary Protest Movement in the
United States" dated 6/30/69, classified "Top Secret." To
locate the source of each statement in the report would
necessitate an extensive search and review of Bureau files.

On 6/18/75, Valt Elder, CIA; Benson Buffham, NSA;
and Kenneth R. Bailey, DIA, wore contacted by SA V. O. Cregar
and advised of the SSC request for mterial responsive to
request of Tom Charles Huston, White House, dated 6/20/60,
which was also forwarded to those agencies, and that the above
report would be made available for SSC personnel to review at
FBIIO. This report was disseminated to Ton Huston, White House,
and when prepared consideration was given to concealment and
protection of original source. The report was reviewed by
Sonstudy 75 representatives and appropriate delotions were
mde relating to privacy considerations and/or protection of
sensitive sources or methods, or any adverse effect on ongoing
operations. An excised copy of report is being forwarded to
the Attorney General. The review indicates that some material
undoubtedly came from third agencies and/or foreign sources
but is set forth in a manner not to pinpoint any specific
agency or foreign source, It is recommended the report be
rade available for review of SSC representative at FBIHQ in
its present excised fora,

NW 88608.DocId:329896.18-Page-14
2

---

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535
dressee:
TR SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

LHM 25
6/20/75
Memo Report dated
Caption of Document:
U. S. Senate Select Committee. Re: Documents
pertaining to "Huston Plan,"
COINTELPRO, & other practices & programs; Huston
Plan & related developments. Appendix C, Part 1,
Item 2.
Originating Office:
De ivered by:
FBI
310
Richard Saylor, Jr. Date: 8/5/75
Received by: a
Title: Exec Sc

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 15
MDR 16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
DATE 1/15/00 BY
HEREINIS UNCLASSIFIED ALMIEHL

LENCLOSURE 62-11639-425X

---

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

NOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: Intelligence Community Staff FROM:
ATTN: Central Index FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

DOCUMENT BRIEFING INTERVIEW TESTIMONY OTHER 6/25/75
For Ressio

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)
SSC

HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other- 6. CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter
U, C, S, TS or
Codeword)
SSC letter 5/14/75, Appendix C, Port 1, Iten 2+3 TS

7. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Intelligence collection

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

For review at FBIHQ. A letter dated 6/29/69 from Huston to
Director of FBI concerning resources being targeted toward
the monitoring of foreign comunist support of revolutionary
youth activities in U.S., offectiveness of such resources, gaps
in intolligence, and stops which should be teken to provide
peximun coverage. 11 FBI nemoranda and other materials
pertaining to the correspondence. MOR 16

62-116395

FMK: fnk
(4) ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

3791 (6-75)
NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 16 CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

---

INSTRUCTIONS

* Type or print clearly in ink.

* Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

* Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

* "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

* If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

1
(
(

KW88608 Docld:32989618 Page 17

---

July 1, 1969
BY LIAISON

Mr. Tom Charles Huston
Staff Assistant to the President
The White House
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Huston:

Pursuant to your request of June 20, 1969,
there is enclosed a report concerning foreign conmunist
support of revolutionary protest groups in the
United States,

Enclosure
FBG:pab/djb

NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 18
Sincerely yours,

MOR 16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE/L 14/00 BY PALMIEHL

TOP SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

---

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SUBJECT: FOREIGN SUPPORT FOR REVOLUTIONARY
PROTEST MOVEMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES

MOR 16
DECLASSIFIED BY SP2 ALM/EHL
ON 11/1400

DATE: June 30, 1969

NW 88608. DocId: 32989618 Page 19

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure
Subject to Criminal Sanction's

TOX SECRE

---

TOP SECRET
f.

FOREIGN SUPPORT FOR REVOLUTIONARY
PROTEST MOVEMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION Page
I. FOREIGN COMMUNIST SUPPORT OF REVOLUTIONARY 1
PROTEST MOVEMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES.

A. Influence of Domestic Communist Left 1
1. Communist Party, USA 1
2. Pro-Chinese Communist Groups 3
a. Progressive Labor Party 3
b. Revolutionary Union 5
c. Miscellaneous Pro-Chinese Groups 6
Communist Party, USA (Warxist-Leninist) 6
Committee of Correspondence 7
3. Trotskyite Groups 7

B. Role of Communist-Bloc Intelligence 9

C. Cuban Intelligence Service 10

D. Chinese Support 12

E. International Conferences 13
1. International Conference on Vietnam 14
2. Latin American Solidarity Organization (LASO) 14
Conference:
3. Bratislava Conference 14
4. International Cultural Congress 15
5. Japanese Conference on Vietnam 15
6. International Assembly 16
7: Budapest Conference 16
8. Hemispheric Conference to End the War in 16
Vietnam
9. Stockholm Conference on Vietnam 17
10. World Congress of Women and World Peace 19
Council Conferences

F. Visits to the United States by Foreign 19
Revolutionaries
TOP SECRET
NW 88608 Docld:32989618 Page 20

---

TOP SECRET

G. Contact Between Leaders of United States 21
Protest Groups and Representatives of
Foreign Communist Groups
1. New Left Movement 21
2. Black Extremist Movement 23

II RESOURCES NOW TARGETED TOWARD MONITORING FOREIGN 29
COMMUNIST SUPPORT OF REVOLUTIONARY PROTEST
MOVEMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES

A. Domestic Communist Groups 29
1. Communist Party, USA 29
2. Pro-Chinese Communist Groups 29
a. Progressive Labor Party (PLP) 29
b. Revolutionary Union (RU) 29
3.Trotskyite Groups 29
a. Socialist Workers Party (SWP) 29

B. Diplomatic Establishments and Intelligence 30
Operations
1: Sovict and Satellite 30
2 Chinese 30
3. Cuban Intelligence Service 31

C. International Conferences 31

D. Contacts Between Revolutionary Leaders and 31
Leaders of Foreign Communist Governments.

E. Travel of Foreigu Leaders to the United States 31

III OBSERVATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS 32

ORGANIZATION APPENDIX 35

Black Panther Party (BPP) 35
Committce of Returned Volunteers (CRV) 35
National Mobilization Committee to End the 35
War in Vietnam (NMC)

Republic of New Africa (RNA) 36
Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) 36
Student lobilization Committee (SMC) 37
Student Konviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) 37
Women's International League for Peace and. 37
Freedom (WILPF)
Women Strike for Peace (WSP) 38

TOP SECRET
NW 88608-Doeld:32989618 Page 21

---

TOP SECRET

INTRODUCTION

Although the term "revolutionary protest
movement" cannot be precisely defined because of the
amorphous nature of such movements, it can be said
that revolutionary protest movements existing within the
United States fall into two broad categories, i.e. the...
New Left movement and the black extremist movement.

The New Left movement, which grew out of the
civil rights struggle of the 1950s, is a loose-knit,
undisciplined group of individuals who view our system of
government as irredeemably corrupt and oppressive. Their
stated aims and objectives are simple; they are dedicated
to the total destruction of our traditional values and
democratic system of government.

The New Left movement in this country is.clearly.
an integral part of a world-wide revolutionary movement of
students and young intellectuals. There is a definite
similarity of goals, a uniformity of action from country to
country, and a rapport among leftist organizations and
individuals in this and foreign countries:

Like the. New Left movement, the black extremist
movement in the United States can be traced to the civil rights
movement of the early 1960s and the violent response to civil
rights agitation. This is best seen in the history of the
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), formed in
1960 in Atlanta, Georgia. SNCC was one of the moving forces
behind the Freedom Riders of the early 1960s and was the target
of Ku Klux Klan violence. In May,
elected chairman of SNCC. The lack of progress toward integrat
since the 1954 school desegregation decision helped
to. change. SNCC from a nonviolent group to a full-blown. black
revolutionary organization. Other black nationalists took up
cry for a "bloody revolution" and a proliferation
of black extremist groups seized the initiative for change frcz
established civil rights organizations and now