JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 10/07/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10147
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1ST NR 97

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 05/23/59
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : LST, ASSOC, BUSS, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318
Docld:34489545 Page 1
2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

5/23/59

AIRTEL AIRMAIL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (62- )

ELOY GARCIA
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

MM 416-C has advised this office GARCIA, a Cuban,
is "hiding" at the home of LOUIS DIAZ, 2715 Royal Court,
Tampa, Fla. GARCIA identified as operator of Johnny's 21
Club, located at 21st and "O" Ave., opposite Capri Hotel.
GARCIA is a close friend of RICHARD PEREZ, aka "EL MONO,"
Tampa gambler working for SANTO TRAFFICANTE, Jr., in
Havana, and GARCIA supposedly was a contact between
TRAFFICANTE and the Batista Government.

LOUIS DIAZ and RICHARD PEREZ are married to
sisters and were formerly associated in a bolita operation
at Tampa taken over by TRAFFICANTE.

According to informant, GARCIA reportedly being
sought by the Castro Government for dealing in Cuban money
and some fraud case in which he was involved with a judge.
Informant advises GARCIA was allegedly involved in dope
traffic and strong arm activity.

Lega't immediately advise Miami if GARCIA being
sought by present Government and on what charges.

4 - Bureau (AM)
1 - Miami (1-92-88 SANTO TRAFFICANTE)
1 - JPO:s11 (1-137-225)
(8)

NOT RECORDED
87 MAY 29 1959

ORIGINAL FILED IN ✓

30
62 JUN 8 1959.

NW 78318
Docld:34489545 Page 2

MM 62-
Information will be furnished INS if GARCIA in
United States illegally but consideration will be given to
interview of GARCIA for information concerning SANTO
TRAFFICANTE.

Additional copies being furnished Bureau for
transmittal Legat, Havana.

- 2 -

NW 78318
Docld:34489545 Page 3
