JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 09/21/94
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10288
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCK
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 04/04/75
PAGES: 55

SUBJECTS :
TRANSCRIPT: MEMORANDUM OF DEPOSITION FOR THE RECORD. PARTICIPANTS:
FRANK STURGIS, WILFREDO NAVARRO, ROBERT B. OLSEN, JAMES N. ROETHE.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : O
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/21/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Contained in file entitled, "President's Commission 4/4/75"
"O/R-III (D)"

2025 Release under the President
John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 1

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 2

TOP SECRET-
O/R-III (D)

PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION
ON CIA ACTIVITIES

1 of 1

Friday, April 4, 1975
Washington, D. C.

TOP SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED 16-8-94
(1)(A)
(1)(6)

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 2

(
COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500

TOP SECRET-
April 4, 1975

MEMORANDUM OF DEPOSITION FOR THE RECORD

DATE: Friday, April 4, 1975
PLACE: 712 Jackson Place, N.W.
Washington, D. C.
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Frank Sturgis Witness
Mr. Wilfredo Navarro Witness
Mr. Robert B. Olsen, Commission Staff
Mr. James N. Roethe, Commission Staff

OLSEN: Frank, continuing from our interview of yesterday which
was being taken down by a court reporter, as you can see we don't have
a court reporter present this morning, which is Friday, April 4, 1975,
and we are beginning at 9:15 am. Do you understand, Frank and Wilfredo,
that you are still under oath as you were yesterday and that this is a
continuation of the deposition in effect that was being taken yesterday?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
NAVARRO: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: All right. We are going to have to stop from time to time
to change belts, but we will try to speed it along as fast as we can.
Yesterday we were talking about an approach which was made to you in
Miami sometime after you had returned to the United States from Cuba
in 1959, in which you were asked if you would be willing to undertake
an assassination?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 3
TOP SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED 16-8-94
(1)(A)

{
TOP SECRET-
- 2-

OLSEN: Would you tell us this morning who it was that approached
you with that subject.

OLSEN: Mr. Sturgis has asked that we go off the record and we have
had a conversation off the record, during the course of which Mr. Navarro
was invited to leave the room and he is now absent from the room. The
only parties present in the room at this time are Mr. Sturgis and myself.
Now the question that I put to you, Frank, was: Can you identify for us
at this time who it was that approached you with the question of whether
you would participate in the performance of an assassation?

STURGIS: Bernard L. Barker.
OLSEN: And when was it, as best you now recall, Frank, that that
approach was made?

STURGIS: I believe it was in approximately 1961, either before the
Bay of Pigs or it was after the Bay of Pigs.

OLSEN: Was it very shortly before or shortly after?
STURGIS: I would be very honest with you, I don't remember.
OLSEN: Well, the Bay of Pigs operation actually took place in April
of 1961, didn't it?

STURGIS: 1961, Yes, sir.
OLSEN: As I understand from your testimony yesterday, when you were
approached about this, you indicated that you would be willing to do so.

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: But you thereafter checked with Sam Jenis about what he
thought about it, and Sam Jenis indicated to you that he thought you
should cooperate with Barker, but that you should make sure that it was
going to be an authorized operation by insisting to Barker that the word

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 4
TOP SECRET-

TOP SECRET-
- 3-
come to you directly from someone who has identified himself as Barker's
Case Officer. Is that a fair statement of what you have just told me?

STURGIS: Either his Case Officer, or his Station Chief.
OLSEN: Did you know at that time who Barker's Case Officer was?
STURGIS: I assumed at that time that it was possible that it was
Eduardo, who he was the assistant under Eduardo.

OLSEN: But, am I correct in understanding now that you do not know
whether Eduardo was still on the scene or whether he had been replaced?

STURGIS: No, sir, I do not know. Now let me say this. I did
ask E. Howard Hunt do use the code name Eduardo while we were in Danbury,
Connecticut, and present

OLSEN: Now you are talking about 1972?
STURGIS: Now we are talking about 1972. I asked him if he gave
any orders to Bernie, or Barker, or Maucho, whatever these names
I called him by these names.

OLSEN: In other words, Barker was known as either Bernie or Maucho?
STURGIS: Right.
OLSEN: Okay.
STURGIS: I did ask Howard: Did you ever ask Maucho Barker to do
an assassination, to approach me on an assassination. He says "Hell, no".

OLSEN: That was Mr. Hunt's answer to you in 1972?
STURGIS: Right.
OLSEN: All right then. Did you thereafter-- going back to the 1961--
did you have any further conversation with Bernard Barker about the subject?

STURGIS: Yes, sir. I was advised to not to discuss the assassination
attempt with him to let Bernie bring up the subject whenever I saw him.
Bernie did bring up the subject

TOP SECRET
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 5

{
TOP SECRET
- 4 -

OLSEN: Where did you talk to Bernie the next time about this subject?
STURGIS: It was either one or two places; it was either at his
home in the --I believe the northwest section of town, or at a dinner that
he invited me to at a steak house--and I believe it was a ranch house; this
ranch house was located on 36th Street just before LeJuene Road.

OLSEN: And what happened when you next met with Barker about the
subject?

STURGIS: He told me that this invitation was his Case Officer
said "Take Frank out and have a dinner."

OLSEN: And what did he do? Did he explore further your willingness
to undertake this?

STURGIS: Yes. Bernie asked me how I would go about it were the
subject about the assassination, and he asked me how I would do it. And
I told him, I says "Well, it would all depend. I don't want to know the
man or the victim's name at this time, but it would depend on the man,
his position, for me to determine how I would get rid of the man.

OLSEN: And also where?
STURGIS: Where--the location, right. Also, in the conversation I
told him--he went into detail with me, and he said that there was a possibility
that he would like to go on the thing with me. And I told him that "Well
Bernie, I don't like anybody to come with me, I'll be very honest with you.
I prefer to do it myself," because naturally I did not want to have a
witness to something that I would do even if he is an agent or not, that
I would do the thing. He said "Well, how could I know that it was done."

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 6
TOP SECRET/SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET
- 5
I says, "Well, there are several ways; No. 1, the person would eventually
be reported missing; No. 2, I will cut off his ear or his finger and give
it to you." I says, "because there won't be no body to recover." I told
him he says how would you do it? I says "well, I could go the
Everglades; I could dig a hole and put lye în it--the lye will eat up his
body; I could take an airplane and fly over the gulfstream and I could
dump hìm in the gulfstream weighted down I would have to cut his
stomach and his intestines so that he wouldn't float. Even weighted
down, a body will float unless you cut open the insides of his stomach
and intestines" "Or, I says, "I could go with a boat out into the gulf-
stream and use explosives in order to destroy the body completely."

OLSEN: Did you know at that time where this assassination attempt
was to be undertaken in Florida?

STURGIS: No, sir; I again --knowing how agents work because I
in turn have trained some people as far as intelligence was concerned;
there is such a thing called compartmentation, and even though I was willing
to go on this assassination, at that time I did not want to know who the
person was in case if I did not do the assassination and someone else did
the assassination, at least if it was uncovered that I would not be brought
în as some one knew of the conspiracy to assassinate someone here if it was
onwhe
in the United States or a foreign country.

OLSEN: Frank, did anything further transpire about this assassination?
Other than this second conversation with Barker?

STURGIS: No, sir. Nothing came about because I nailed him to the
wall, telling Barker that I would want someone much higher than he who would
identify himself, his position with the company, and then I would do the
operation.

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 7
TOP SECRET

0
TOP SECRET
- 6-

OLSEN: Did anybody ever contact you then who was higher in the
company?

STURGIS: No, sir. No one, but I still maintained my friendship
with Barker throughout these years.

OLSEN: So that ended the matter with respect to assassinations?
STURGIS: Yes, sir.
(end of first tape)

(
OLSEN: All right, here we go back on record. And let the record
show that Mr. Roethe has just recently re-entered the office and is now
present for the rest of the conference. Jim, in order that your voice
get picked up properly on this thing, would you move closer pick a
chair that is a little closer to the mike.

Continuing then, Frank, did you ever have any further contact
with anyone who you believed had any connection whatever with the Central
Intelligence Agency about an assassination?

STURGIS: No, sir. Maucho Barker was the only one at that time.
Now, Maucho asked me to help some other leaders who naturally were in
touch with him. You must understand that because he asked me you can
understand his position; his position was political under Eduardo;
as I said before, E. Howard Hunt or Eduardo was a political officer with
CIA with the planning of the Bay of Pigs invasion.

(
OLSEN: Well, what I'm getting at is: Did anybody ever contact you--
that is, anybody who had any connection whatever with the CIA, contact you
about an assassination after the one that you have just described to us?

STURGIS: In the United States, No, sir.
OLSEN: How about outside the United States?

TOP SECRET
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 8

D
(
TOP SECRET
- 7-
I have discussed
STURGIS: Well, there is a very thin line here.
assassinations of several top Cuban political and military leaders with
the Havana Station.
with
OLSEN: When you say/the Havana Station, who in the Havana Station?
STURGIS: Well, with the United States Embassy, Colonel Nichols.
OLSEN: This was while you were still in Cuba?
STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: Before leaving there in June 1959?
STURGIS: Yes, sir. That's in the first part of January and
February of 1959.

OLSEN: Well, these were all discussed with us yesterday on the
record when you described to us the discussions that took place among
officials of the Cuban Air Force and Cuban Army about plans to assassinate
Fidel Castro, Raul Castro, and Che Guevara?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: And people of their entourage.
STURGIS: Yes, sir..
OLSEN: And you described yesterday some exercises that were worked
up, plans that were drawn up with respect to possible places to perform
the assassinations?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: And then you described to us yesterday the fact that Colonel
Nichols had on the occasions when you had discussed it with him
Colonel Nichols had urged you to hold off on any such assassinations.

(
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 9
STURGIS: Right.
TOP SECRET

D
(
TOP SECRET
- 8
OLSEN: Now, in addition to those discussions that took place
in Cuba early in 1959, when you were an officer of the Cuban Air Force,
and the discussions that you had with Bernard Barker sometime in 1961
about a possible assassination of some unnamed person at an unnamed
location, have you ever had any other discussions with anybody whatever
associated with the United States Government about assassinations?

STURGIS: No, sir; not that I can remember at this time.
OLSEN: You mentioned to me when we talked over the telephone,
Frank, that you had had some contact with or some relationship with
a planned assassination of Premier Castro in New York. What was that
that you were referring to?

STURGIS: There was a time--I don't remember the exact date--
that Fidel was in New York; there was a conspiracy or at least talk
of a conspiracy to want to kill him. Now as far as CIA is concerned,
I don't believe that they were involved or any agents were involved in
that conspiracy.wanting to assassinate Fidel.

OLSEN: Was this then something that was discussed among elements
of the Cuban exiles in Florida?

STURGIS: Yes, sir. New York and Florida.
OLSEN: Did you have any contact or know of any contact whatever
in connection with such discussions of assassinating Premier Castro in
New York-- did you have any contact whatever with anybody in the Government
of the United States?

STURGIS: That is very difficult to answer, Mr. Olsen, because
of the dates. învolved. I would think that I had contact with the Agency,
but again I will state that whether they knew about or were involved in
any conspiracy myself I do not know.

TOP SECRET
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 10

D
9-
OLSEN: Well, when you say you had some contact with somebody
from the Agency, did you have some contact with somebody from the Agency
about such an assassination?

STURGIS: No, sir. No, I did not.
OLSEN: Was there any contact that you have had of any nature
relating to any assassination any place with any official of the United
States Government, other than the ones that you have already described
to me?
[off the record]

OLSEN: All right, we are going back on the record again. Mr. Sturgis having
said he was having difficulty thinking about exactly what answer he would
give to the question that was posed because he didn't want to use up tape
time while he was engaged in his thinking process. He has--while we have
been off the record--explored the subject with us further and is now prepared
to answer the question. Go ahead, Frank.

STURGIS: After that meeting with Barker, I, as far as I know, with
the Cuban friends of mine who were working with the company or who was working
under the company, there was a great deal of talk among the Cubans about wanting
to assassinate Fidel Castro in New York, inside of Cuba, or in Latin America
because Fidel did make several trips. There were talk, but as far as I know
I don't know if CIA sponsored any of the Cubans in any attempt to kill Fidel
or finance them in any attempt to kill him, nor supported any attempt by the
Cubans to want to kill him, or whether these Cubans were simply patriots or
were working for or associated with CIA.

OLSEN: You don't know then, Frank, whether any of this conversation
about killing Fidel Castro was initiated or promoted or sponsored in any
fashion by the Central Intelligence Agency?

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 11

D
10
STURGIS:
OLSEN:
I do not. No, sir.
Okay. Now, was there any other discussions about assassi-
nations that you could tell us about that you participated in or knew of,
other than what you have already described to us?

STURGIS: No, sir. At this point I cannot think of any. other
attempt or discussion in any other assassination attempt on any one.
OLSEN: Did you ever have any conversation with anybody about
assassinating President Kennedy?

STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Did you ever have any conversation with anyone about
assassinating Attorney General, or later, Senator Robert Kennedy?

STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Did you ever have any conversation about assassinating
Martin Luther King or any other legislative or executive or public figure
in the United States?

STURGIS: No, sir.
[End of Tape #2]

(
OLSEN: All right, we are beginning belt No. 3 of this interview
with Frank Sturgis on Friday, April 4, 1975. Frank, you have just told us
that you have never had any conversations with anybody relating to the
assassination of President Kennedy or any other political or other public
figure in the United States. Is that correct?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: Did you have any part whatever in planning or carrying out
the assassination of President Kennedy or any other public figure of the
United States?

STURGIS: I have not been involved in any of that, sir.

NW 78141.
Docld:32201373 Page 12

11
OLSEN: Were you in Dallas at any time in November 1963?
STURGIS: I don't recall, sir, but I do know one thing I was not
in Dallas on November--I believe it was--November 22, 1963, when
President Kennedy was assassinated.

OLSEN: Where were you on that day?
STURGIS: I was at home in Miami.
OLSEN: Were you literally at home, or were you at work?
STURGIS: I remember, sir, that I saw the assassination of
President Kennedy on television.

OLSEN: Now, of course, it had been taped on television; so
you could have seen it anytime during that day or the succeeding days.
It was replayed many times on television, wasn't it?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
(
OLSEN: Where were you when you first heard that President Kennedy
had been shot.

STURGIS: At my home.
OLSEN: Who was with you in your home at that time?
STURGIS: My wife, Mrs. Janet Sturgis; my mother-in-law, Mrs. Elizabeth
Hunt; and I believe, my nephew, James Hunt.

OLSEN: And, is your mother-in-law alive today?
STURGIS: No, sir, she is dead.
OLSEN: When did she die?
STURGIS: You will have to call my wife. My mother-in-law lived
OLSEN:
with me for several years and offhand I forget the exact date that she died.
Now, the shooting of the President in Dallas on November 22,
(
1963, occurred at about 1:30 in the afternoon Miami time, can you tell us what
you were doing at home on a Friday at 1:30, when the news first came that the

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 13

12
President had been shot?
STURGIS: No, sir, I couldn't. All I know is that I was home at that
OLSEN: What kind of a job did you have at that time?
STURGIS: 1963 would be very difficult for me at the present time to
just remember what I was doing in 1963
OLSEN: Were you selling used cars at that time?
STURGIS: I really don't know at this time. It is possible because
I was involved through the years in selling used cars.

OLSEN: How did you first get the news that the President had
been shot?

STURGIS: On television.
OLSEN: And did you remain at home the rest of the day?
STURGIS: Well I was at home for that day.
OLSEN: But I said, did you remain at home for the rest of the
day after getting the news?

STURGIS: I'm sorry. Yes, sir, I did.
OLSEN: And were there anybody else who was aware of the fact that
you were at home that day other than your wife, your mother-in-law, and
your wife's nephew?

STURGIS: To the best that I can remember, sir, I believe they were
the only ones I'm not too sure if anyone else stopped by the house or
anything.

OLSEN: Do you recall calling anybody or talking to anybody that
day by telephone or in person?

STURGIS: Well, not exactly, because everyone was upset in the house
because of the assassination.

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 14...

{
13
OLSEN: Were you ever taken into custody by any police in Dallas?
STURGIS: No, sìr. Never.
OLSEN: Have you ever visited the scene of the assassination of
President Kennedy in Dallas?

STURGIS: No, sir. Never have.
OLSEN: Have you turned over to us, Mr. Sturgis, a series of some
30 to 35 photographs taken of yourself in the late 1950's and early 1960's
for purposes of identification of what you looked like in those days?
STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: Do we have your permission to have those photographs
copied and analyzed to determine whether there is any correspondence be-
tween your appearance at that time and the appearance of certain persons
who were taken into custody in Dallas, Texas, on November 22, 1963?
STURGIS: Yes, sir. You have my permission.
ROETHE: Have those photographs been dated by you on the back of
each photograph?

STURGIS: Yes, sir. These photographs have been dated to the best of
my knowledge. They should be the correct date or approximately that date.
OLSEN: There are several instances, Frank, in which a date shows
on the print itself, where you have separately identified the year in which
Is that correct?
the photograph was taken on the back of the photograph.

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: And would those pictures where the date is shown on the
front, would the date shown on the front be reasonably close to the date on
which the pictures were taken?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 15

OLSEN:
14
Would they be generally within six months or less of the
date that the photographs were taken?
STURGIS: I would think so; yes, sir.
OLSEN: Frank, we have handed to you for your examination a series
of five photographs which have been marked as "Groden Exhibits 9A, 9B, 9С,
9D and 9E', depicting certain persons who were being accompanied by police
in Dallas, Texas, as they were walking along in the general vicinity of
the Texas School Book Depository; can you tell us whether any of those
photographs show you?

STURGIS: The people in the photograph that I have seen were not me.
OLSEN: Did you recognize any of the people in the photographs?
STURGIS: No, sir, I did not.
OLSEN: Can you tell us whether in your opinion any of those photo-
graphs show E. Howard Hunt?

STURGIS: Not that I know, sir, because at that time I did not know
E. Howard Hunt.

[Off the record]
OLSEN: We have again bean off the record for a few moments while
I have been thinking about the next line of inquiry or whether there is in
fact anything else that we would like to talk to Frank Sturgis about. And
we've concluded that we are about finished with the interview, but Mr. Sturgis
has indicated that he would like to make a statement to us about his willingness
to submit himself to a polygraph dealing with certain subjects that we have
Would you go ahead, Frank, and make whatever
covered in this interview.
statement you want to make on that subject.

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 16..

15
STURGIS: Yes, sir, Mr. Olsen, I am willing to take a polograph
on the subject of either conspiracy on my part or the attempt on the
attempt to assassination of President Kennedy, Martin Luther King,
Robert Kennedy, or any official of the United States Government. Plus,
I am willing to take a polygraph on what I have just told you about
Bernie Barker asking me about an assassination attempt.

OLSEN: You're talking about these two conversations now that
you had with Bernie Barker in which in about 1961 he approached you
about your willingness to perform an assassination on some unknown person
at some unknown place?

STURGIS: Yes, sir. I'll take a polygraph on that too, if necessary.
OLSEN: Is there anything else, Frank, that you would like to
(
reveal to the Commission, that you would like to talk to the Commission about,
relating to the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency in any respect
whatever?

STURGIS: Yes, sir. I would like to make this statement. I think
that there are elements in this country who are trying to destroy the Central
Intelligence Agency. I believe in order for a country to have some defense
or to protect our national security we do need an agency like Central Intelli-
gence Agency. I do feel that there may be elements within Central Intelligence
Agency who probably who have exceeded their orders and so forth, that may have
went off on some things of their own that probably either their Station Chief
or sometimes the Case Officer or anyone higher than whoever the people are
that may have or would want to do certain illegal activities.

OLSEN: Okay. We are going to have to break again here because we
are at the end of another belt on the dictating unit, but I do want to come
back to one other question that I want to ask you on another case.

[end of Belt No. 3]
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 17

OLSEN:
16
Frank, we are now beginning tape No. 4, or helt No. 4,
here on this interview. And I would like to go into the subject a little
bit further urther about about any connections that you may have had with the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy.

First, let me ask you, have you ever in your life met
Lee Harvey Oswald?

STURGIS: Not that I can remember, sir.
OLSEN: Do you know whether you had any contact with him in
Florida?

STURGIS: Not that I can remember, sir.
OLSEN: Do you ever recall having had any contacts with somebody
by the name of Jack Ruby--either in the United States, Cuba, or elsewhere?

STURGIS: No, sìr.
OLSEN: Jack Ruby, I understand that his real name was Rubenstein;
did you ever meet anybody in Cuba or in Florida by the name of Jack
Rubenstein, or Jake Rubenstein?

STURGIS: Not that I can remember sir.
OLSEN: Have you ever in your life met Clay Shaw of New Orleans ?
STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Have you ever met a man by the name of David Ferry of New Orleans?
STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Or David Ferry or Clay Shaw from any place else?
STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Did you ever have any contacts with anybody at 544 Camp Street
or that vicinity in New Orleans?

STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Did you ever visit anybody related to the Cuban Revolutionary
Movement in New Orleans?

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 18

16A-
STURGIS: In New Orleans, No, sir.
OLSEN: Have you ever been to New Orleans?
STURGIS: Yes, sir, I have. Several times.
OLSEN: And do you know whether you were in New Orleans at any
time în 1962 or 1963?

STURGIS: I can't remember, sir. I don't recall the dates.
OLSEN: What was the occasion for your being in New Orleans?
STURGIS: I believe once or twice in leaving the country, one time
I believe going to Panama,
OLSEN: That is, you just flew to New Orleans in order to catch
a flight to Panama?

STURGIS: To Panama. A direct flight to Panama. Also a direct flight
to Guatamala when I went there to visit President Udios (?).
OLSEN: And, on either of those occasions did you go into the
City of New Orleans or did you just stay at the airport between flights?

STURGIS: I stayed at a motel, which I believe was one of the largest
motels in New Orleans. I did go into the French Quarter in New Orleans one
time--the date I don't remember. But it was on one of these visits.
OLSEN: Was it just for an evening on the town, or what?
STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: Just for social contact?
STURGIS: Yes, sir. Because New Orleans is a famous city in the
French Quarter and I wanted to at least if I had the time at that time at
the motel to visit the French Quarter.

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 19

OLSEN:
17
Did you ever make contact with or confer with anybody
relating to the Cuban Revolutionary Movement or any other Cuban anti-Castro
groups in New Orleans?

STURGIS: No, sir. I didn't.
OLSEN: Did you ever have any contact with an organization known
as the "Fair Play for Cuba Committee"?

STURGIS: No, sir. At least not that I can remember.
OLSEN: Did you have any connection at all with the prosecutions
initiated in New Orleans by District Attorney Jim Garrett?

STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Were you ever called as a witness?
STURGIS: No, sir.
OLSEN: Were you ever interviewed or had your deposition taken
(
in that matter?

STURGIS: By them; no, sir.
OLSEN: By anybody în cases involving charges brought against
Clay Shaw?

STURGIS: Oh, no, sìr. I was thinking about the FBI visting me
several days after the assassination.

OLSEN: Were you contacted and visited by the FBI shortly after
the assassination of President Kennedy?

STURGIS: Yes, sir.
OLSEN: Who contacted you?
STURGIS: Two Special Agents from the Bureau, FBI. I believe one of
the agents--if I'm not mistaken--his name was Bob Davis.
OLSEN: And do you know the name of the other one?
STURGIS: Offhand I forget, sir.
NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 20

OLSEN:
18
And do you know how long after the assassination that
that interview took place?

STURGIS: No, sir. I don't; I really don't remember the exact date.
OLSEN: Did they tell you why they were interviewing you?
STURGIS: They wanted to know my whereabouts before, during and after
the assassination of President Kennedy.
OLSEN: Did they say why they wanted to know your whereabouts?
STURGIS: Yes, sir. In the friendly(?) discussion that we had there--
I believe it lasted maybe two hours, to two and a half hours-- I asked why
that they wanted to speak with me concerning this. And they said, "Well,
Frank, we feel that you are one of several persons that is capable of doing
this sort of thing."

OLSEN: Why did they think that you were capable of doing this
(
kind of thing?

STURGIS: I really don't know, sir.
ROETHE: Was this interview in Miami?
STURGIS:
)
Yes, sir. It was in Miami at my home. I believe--I'm not
sure just where I was living at at that time, sir.
OLSEN: Do you recall having made any statements which were quoted
in the Miami newspapers or any Miami newspaper about the assassination of the
President?

STURGIS: I may have, sir.
OLSEN: Do you know whether you stated at that time that you knew
any of the characters who were involved in the assassination?

STURGIS: I don't remember, sir.

NW 78141
Docld:32201373 Page 21

OLSEN:
19
Do you remember at that time stating whether you thought
that there was a conspiracy or not a conspiracy in connection with the
President's assassination?

STURGIS: I believe that to this day, that there is a possibility that
there was a conspiracy to