JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 09/19/94
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10276
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : KNOCHE, Ε. Η.
TO : OLSEN, ROBERT B.
TITLE :
DATE : 04/29/75
PAGES : 30
SUBJECTS :
ATTACHING CIA COMMENTS ON CERTAIN QUESTIONS RAISED BY MR. PAUL HOCH.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : Ο
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/19/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Contained in file entitled, "Hoch/Warren Commission Paper"
"O/R (V-F)"

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 1

-SECRET-
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

29 April 1975

Mr. Robert B. Olsen
Senior Counsel
Commission on CIA Activities
Within the United States

Dear Mr. Olsen:

I am attaching, in answer to your request,
CIA comments on certain questions raised by
Mr. Paul Hoch.

I am advised that the references to HTLINGUAL
(mail opening) material on pages 15 and 17 of our
summary memo on the right side of the folder
involved material which by our lights was innocuous,
but which we made available to the FBI.

Let us know if there are any details you may
wish to pursue. Our check, meanwhile, continues.

Faithfully yours,

гновuoche

E. H. Knoche
Assistant to the Director

Classified by 14359
Exempt from general
declassification schedule of E.O. 11652
exemption schedule 50 (1), (2), (3)
Automatically declassified on
Date Impossible to Determine

-SECRET-

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITEED

12-8-94
len (8-12-94)
(1)(3)
(30 pages)

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

Memorandum by Paul Hoch Concerning
CIA Activities and the Warren Commission Investigation

Mr. Paul Hoch, a long-time critic of the Warren Commission
report, has been associated with Ramparts magazine, NBC news,
and US News and World Report in the past. He has been in touch
with CIA on the Warren Commission investigation since at least
1971. Our files show that Mr. Hoch was one of 12 people who,
in 1967 or earlier, received a copy of the original unexpurgated
list of all Warren Commission material held by the National
Archives before a new list without CIA titles was prepared by
Archives at our request.

In the introduction to his copyrighted 24 March 1975 memo-
randum (Tab 1), Mr. Hoch notes that he "concentrates on the
CIA, with emphasis on specific questions relevant to domestic
CIA activities, possible CIA nondisclosure to the Warren Com-
mission, and possible links between the assassination and CIA
attempts to kill Fidel Castro." A review of the memorandum
reveals that it contains a number of questions and allegations
concerning CIA. However, it also contains questions and
allegations concerning the FBI, the Department of State, and
various military departments. It appears to be a general
criticism of Warren Commission methods and findings with
particular emphasis on CIA's alleged role in obfuscating what
Mr. Hoch believes to be the true nature of its own activities
leading up to and following the assassination.

SECRET/SENSITIVE
▼
E2 IMPDET CL BY 018186

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 3

SECRET/SENSITIVE

We are not competent to comment on Mr. Hoch's questions
or allegations concerning other Government agencies or the
Commission. He has raised a number of points concerning CIA
that we address below. Before doing so, however, a few words
are in order concerning the set of mind with which Mr. Hoch
seems to have approached this matter.

On page 11 of his memorandum, Mr. Hoch quotes Mr. James
Angleton as having made the following remark to Mr. Seymour
Hersh when asked by the latter about alleged CIA wrong-doing
and domestic activities: "A mansion has many rooms and there
were many things going on during the period of the [anti-war]
bombings. I'm not privy to who struck John." Mr. Hoch then
expresses puzzlement over this latter statement. He notes that
"who struck John" may be a literary allusion or cliche unfamiliar
to him and goes on to say:

It may have been a reference to some other John-- :
e.g., Mitchell. Also, it is conceivable that "Who
struck John" was some sort of code name for the CIA
study of the Kennedy assassination. Angleton should be
asked to explain that statement, and whether he is aware
of any CIA investigations of Oswald or the assassination,
particularly any which may have reached conclusions dif-
ferent from the Warren Commission's. Regardless of what
Angleton now says he meant by his comment, an intended
reference to John Kennedy seems as likely as any other
explanation.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 4
:

Mr. Hoch's willingness to attribute sinister implications to
such a common phrase is both humorous and revealing. It
belies the impression of reasonably objective scholarship he
has sought to project in his memorandum.

The following questions are paraphrases of points con-
cerning CIA raised by Mr. Hoch. They are keyed to the page on
which the substance with which they deal appears in his memo-
randum.

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 5
:
F

P. 2
SECRET/SENSITIVE
(
QUESTIONS
(
Did CIA intercept a letter and money order which Oswald's
mother sent to him shortly after he defected to Russia?

Answer:
No. CIA did not intercept a letter and money order sent to
Oswald by his mother shortly after his defection. Mr. Hoch's
question probably refers to a matter taken up by Mrs.
Marguerite Oswald with the FBI on 28 April 1960 and described
in the 12 May 1960 report by the Dallas FBI office in Tab 2 .

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 6
SECRET/SENSITIVE
:

P. 3
SECRET/SENSITIVE
What dissemination in CIA was made of the FBI report "Fair Play
for Cuba Committee--New Orleans Division" which dealt only with
Oswald and "A. J. Hidell," Oswald's alias? Other than this
report, were any CIA employees or informants aware of Oswald's
activities in New Orleans?

Answer:
A copy of this report is attached at Tab 3. It was transmitted
to CIA by the FBI under a cover note dated 8 November 1963. The
date stamp on the reverse of the cover sheet indicates it was
logged in to the Agency on 12 November 1963. The DDP Counter-
intelligence Staff liaison office received it on 15 November
1963. The report then went to the counterintelligence office
of the DDP Special Activities Staff which was then concerned with
Cuban matters (no date indicated). The registry for the Special
Activities Staff counterintelligence office handled the report
on 21 November 1963. On 22 November 1963, the report was
received by the DDP Counterintelligence Staff special investi-
gations office, presumably because it concerned a former defector
to the Soviet Union. Apparently it was being processed by that
office when President Kennedy was assassinated. Prior to the
assassination, CIA had no information concerning Oswald's
activities in New Orleans beyond this report.

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 7
SECRET/SENSITIVE

P. 4
SECRET/SENSITIVE
544 Camp Street: Is there a CIA connection with Guy Banister?
With David Ferrie? With other associates of Banister?

Answer:
According to CIA records, during 1960 Guy Banister operated a
private detective agency in New Orleans called Banister and
Associates. CIA considered contacting him for use as a foreign
intelligence source and for possible use of his firm for cover
purposes. However, security investigation revealed derogatory
information about his professional conduct, and he was not
contacted. With regard to Mr. Ferrie, Agency files indicate that
CIA never considered contacting him for any purpose at any time.
Our record search to date has not revealed any contacts with
other associates of Guy Banister.

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 8
3
SECRET/SENSITIVE

P. 5 and footnote #12
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Was Oswald ever a CIA informant? Was he debriefed by CIA in
Moscow? on his return from the USSR? If not, any particular
reason? Did CIA ever receive in whole or in part Oswald's
manuscript about his life in Russia? Is #110669 an identifying
number used by CIA in any way?

Answer:
Lee Harvey Oswald was never associated or connected, directly
or indirectly, in any way whatsoever with CIA (see Tab 4 for
testimony of John A. McCone and Richard Helms before Warren Com-
mission and Affidavit of John A. McCone). As a former marine
and as a returned defector, he was of primary interest to
:
military authorities and to the FBI who were responsible for any
debriefings of him upon his return from the USSR. CIA received
copies of Oswald's manuscript from the FBI and the Warren Com-、
mission in the material disseminated by them after the
assassination. The number 110669 is not a CIA identification
number of Lee Harvey Oswald for any purpose including registration
as a source. Within CIA records, the number 110669 identifies
an individual of Austrian birth who was of intelligence interest
in East Asia during the 1940's. The Inter-Agency Source
24
Register (ISR) which is managed by CIA CIA Lists by name and number
military intelligence sources since 1957. We have searched the
ISR for both Oswald's name and the number 110669. His name and
that number are not registered in the ISR.
UP
NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 9
SECRET/SENSITIVE
:

P. 7
Mexican photo
(SECRET/SENSITIV
Answer:
We have had previous communications with Mr. Hoch concerning
this matter (see Tab 5).
The Agency at no time in its dealings with the FBI in the
Field or with the Warren Commission in Headquarters described
or suggested that the unknown individual whose photograph was
taken in Mexico City on 1 October was Lee Harvey OSWALD. Our
total coverage of the unknown individual numbers twelve photo-
graphs taken on 1 October (USSR Embassy), 4 October (USSR
Embassy) and 15 October (Cuban Embassy). OSWALD left Mexico
City, it is known, at 0830 hours, 2 October. It is clear,
Mr.
:
therefore, that this individual could not be OSWALD.
Helms, in a memorandum to the Warren Commission Chief Counsel,.
indicated very clearly that the photograph of this unknown
individual had nothing to do with the OSWALD case. In the
light of all of the facts in the file, we find no reason to
:
modify this judgment.

SECRET/SENSITIVE
NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 10

P. 7
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Mexican intercept operations: Did CIA have recordings of calls
between Cuban and Soviet Embassies in which Oswald is discussed
or in which Oswald participated? Did we have a recording of
Oswald's conversation with a guard at the Soviet Embassy?

Answer:
CIA has transcripts of such calls, including a conversation
between Oswald and a guard at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico
City, which were made on 27 and 28 September and 1 October
1963. These transcripts were reviewed in their entirety by
the Warren Commission at CIA Headquarters and in Mexico City
at the Station in April 1964. The recordings were erased
routinely after the transcripts were made. Oswald identified
himself only in the course of the 1 October conversation, and
a summary of that conversation was the first indication of his、
presence in Mexico reported by the Station on 8 October 1963
and disseminated by CIA Headquarters on 10 October 1963.
:
:
NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 11
SECRET SENSITIVE

2
P. 7
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Who had substantial knowledge of matters pertaining to Oswald
in the CIA Station in Mexico City at the time of Oswald's
visit there? Was E. Howard Hunt the acting chief of station
in Mexico City at or near that time?

Answer:
The operations which produced the transcripts of the calls con-
nected with Oswald on 27 and 28 September and 1 October 1963
were quite closely held at the station.
:
Few people beyond the
chief and his deputy, one or two senior officers, and the
monitor would have been privy to the material.

E. Howard Hunt served in Mexico City from December 1950 to June
1951. From November 1960 until his retirement in 1970, he was
assigned to Headquarters. During the period in which Mr. Hunt
was alleged by Mr. Hoch to have been acting chief of station in
Mexico City--August-September 1963--Mr. Hunt was assigned to a
DDP desk at Headquarters. See Tab 6 for documents covering Mr.
Hunt's activities then. (Mr. Hunt made one extended trip to
Europe during this period, from July 1965 to September 1966.)

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 12
SECRET/SENSITIVE
(2)

P. 7-8
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Did CIA personnel play any role in building up, disseminating,
then denigrating a report that Oswald had received money to kill
Kennedy from someone at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City? Was
there a CIA connection with Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte, the source
of the story?

Answer:
As stated in information provided to the Warren Commission by the
Agency, CIA had no connection with activities or statements by
Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte concerning allegations that Oswald
:,
received money to kill President Kennedy from someone at the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. After Gilberto Alvarado came to
the American Embassy in Mexico City on 26 November 1963 and made
his allegations, his story was investigated by local CIA and
FBI representatives in liaison with responsible Mexican law
enforcement authorities. The Agency representatives informed the
FBI that Alvarado was a well known Nicaraguan Communist under-
ground member who was an informant of a Nicaraguan Security
a CIA source. On November
Service officer who was, in turn,
30, 1963, Alvarado admitted to Mexican security officials in
writing that his whole story of having seen Lee Oswald receive
money in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City to assassinate
President Kennedy was false. On the same day, CIA reported to
appropriate U. S. Government authorities that Alvarado stated
his motive in telling his false story was to get the United

SECRET/SENSITIVE
NW 78141
DocId:32201361 Page 13

SECRET/SENSITIVE,
He also said that
States to take action against Fidel Castro.
he hated Castro and thought that his story about Oswald, if
believed, would help cause the U. S. to take action against
Castro.

NW 78141
DocId:32201361 Page 14
9
SECRET/SENSITIVE
:

(
P. 9
<SECRET/SENSITIVE
Is there any indication that CIA believed Oswald's defection
and return might have been connected with a mission for
another intelligence organization (e.g., military) and that
this kept CIA away from his case?

Answer:
24
maintained ed (by by CIA CIA as
No. An Inter-Agency Source Registry is maintained by
a service of common concern. Such a registry was in existence
throughout the 1960's. Its purpose is to preclude accidental
contact or use of an intelligence source of one agency by
another. Oswald's name never appeared in the registry.
UP
NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 15
10
SECRET/SENSITIVE

P. 9
SECRET/SENSITIVE
a CIA-State study concerning defectors
What was
the purpose of
in general in 1960?

Answer:
There was no formal "study," but there was inter-agency
preoccupation and exchange of information caused by the fact
that there had been 13 U. S. defectors, including Oswald,
between 1958 and 1960.
KGB agents:
Among the 13, there were five ascertained
Davis, Dutkaniez, Martin, Mitchell, and Sloboda.
:
NW 78141
DocId:32201361 Page 16
11
SECRET/SENSITIVE
:

P. 9
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Did Dr. Alexis Davison who served in the U. S. Embassy in
Moscow when Oswald was there have any contact with Oswald of
a non-medical nature? As Assistant Air Attache, did Davison
coordinate intelligence activities with the CIA station?
was his connection with the Penkovsky case?
What

Answer:
A search of our files has revealed no CIA knowledge of the
contact between Dr. Davison and Oswald during the latter's
stay in the Soviet Union. At the time of Dr. Davison's
assignment to Moscow, the CIA station chief was not charged
with the function of coordinating the intelligence activities
of the service attaches there. Dr. Davison's connection with
the Penkovsky case and with CIA is described in Tab 7.

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 17
SECRET SENSITIVE
:

P. 10
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Was J. Walton Moore connected with CIA? Was he connected
with the Oswald case?
{
Answer:
Mr. J. Walton Moore was employed by CIA in the Contact Division
office in Dallas during the early 1960's. His only contact
with the Oswald case prior to the assassination is recorded in
his 1 May 1964 memorandum to the Acting Chief, Contact
Division, attached at Tab 8 (a typed version of the document
is also attached because of the poor legibility of the
original). He may have been involved in the Agency's effort to
support the Warren Commission during the Commission's investi-
gations. Mr. Moore has stated that he was never asked by Mr.
de Mohrenschildt for advice concerning Oswald. We find no
indication that there was ever any contact between Oswald and
Mr. Moore.
:
NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 18
13

P. 10
SEUILT/NOVE
a
(
What actions did CIA take in Dallas or in Washington after
Kennedy was shot or after Oswald was arrested?

Answer:
A special cable channel was established at headquarters to
insure that all correspondence concerning Oswald would be con-
trolled in a central repository. The resultant correspondence
was subsequently incorporated into the Oswald file which was
reviewed in full by the Warren Commission. Extensive investi-
gative and analysis work was performed by the Agency in coordi-
nation with other Government agencies and with the Warren Com-
mission.

Following the assassination of President Kennedy, DCI McCone
instructed the Domestic Contact Service (DCS) to send an
officer from its Dallas office to Parkland Hospital to contact
and offer assistance to the FBI and Secret Service. Mr. Linwood'
Davis of that office went immediately to the hospital where he
identified himself to the FBI and offered his services during
the emergency. To date, our file review shows no indication
that any particular use was made of Mr. Davis at that time.

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 19
SECRET/SENSITIVE

NW 78141
P. 13
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Does CIA have files with references to Oswald or his family
other than CD692?

Answer:
CIA had only one general file on Oswald at the time of the
assassination. That file had been opened as a result of
Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union. At the time of the
assassination the Warren Commission reviewed and received a
copy of that file in its entirety. As the Agency continued
to cooperate with the Commission, the Oswald file grew. It
numbers 58 volumes now and contains all information in
possession of the Agency on Oswald or his family.

The single exception to the above statement concerns one
HTLINGUAL document dated 8 July 1961 but discovered only on
review triggered by press publicity following the Oswalds'
return to the U. S. in June 1962. The sensitivity of this
intelligence precluded its inclusion in the Oswald file in
general circulation. However, a copy of the document was
forwarded to the FBI immediately upon discovery. (Also see
question concerning Marina Oswald keyed to p. 14 of Mr. Hoch's
memorandum.)
Docld:32201361 Page 20
15
SECRET/SENSITIVE

P. 14
Was there any FBI-CIA liaison concerning Oswald's intention
to attend Albert Schweitzer College in Switzerland? Was
there any CIA intelligence interest in the school during that
period?

Answer:
Information concerning Oswald's intention to attend Albert
Schweitzer College in Switzerland was passed to CIA by the
FBI in the report of the FBI's interview with Mrs. Marguerite
C. Oswald on 28 April 1960 (see pp 5-6of that report in Tab 2).
A search of CIA files has revealed no CIA knowledge of an
Albert Schweitzer College in Switzerland.

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 21
16
SECRET/SENSITIVE
:

P. 14
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Has CIA had any contact with Marina Oswald and are there any
CIA records on her not previously turned over to the Warren
Commission.

Answer:
CIA has had no contact with Marina Oswald. Our records show
that a complete set of HTLINGUAL documents on Marina were
turned over by hand to Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI on
23 November 1963 for use by the FBI in the course of their
investigations. One other HTLINGUAL document received after
that date was passed to the FBI in September 1964. To date,
we have found no record indicating that CIA also passed these
documents to the Warren Commission; nor do we have any record
of how they were used by the FBI during the Warren Commission
investigations.

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 22.
17
SECRET/SENSITIVE

P. 15
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Who was the unidentified man at a meeting with Richard Helms
on 12 March 1964 who would have known if Oswald had been a
CIA informant?

Answer:
The unidentified man who accompanied Mr. Helms to the 12 March
1964 meeting was Mr. David E. Murphy, then Chief of the Soviet
Russia Division, DDP. See paragraph 6 of the Tab 9 memorandum
of record of this meeting for Mr. Helms' reported remark that
he and Mr. Murphy were the two Clandestine Services officers
who certainly would know whether or not Oswald had been an
agent for CIA in the Soviet Union.

NW 78141
✓ Docld:32201361 Page 23
18
SECRET/SENSITIVE

(SEUMET/ONL
P. 16
Has CIA pursued independent investigations of the assassination
and developed any new information not already provided to the
Warren Commission, the Justice Department, or other responsible
authority? For example, what use did the Agency make of the
Zapruder film?

Answer:
As noted by Mr. Helms in the course of his testimony before the
Warren Commission (see Tab 4, pp 123-124), the case of Lee Harvey
Oswald and the assassination of President Kennedy is not closed
and "will never be closed" as far as the Agency is concerned.
CIA has continued to be alert for new information abroad concerning
The
this matter, and the Oswald file has grown over the years.
follow-up in Mexico City was particularly active during the
1960's. Throughout this period, no credible information has been
developed which would substantially change the conclusions of
the Warren Commission report. Any substantive information developed
independently by the Agency has been shared with appropriate
authorities, in particular the FBI.
:
A copy of the Zapruder film was acquired by CIA from Time, Inc.,
at the request of the Office of Training in February 1965.
agreement with Time, Inc., specified ".
The
.this film will not.
be exhibited or published in any fasion except for internal
training. ." The Agency has adhered to these restrictions on
the use of the film. From 1965 to 1969, the film was viewed by
•
some officials in the Office of Training. Since April 1969, the

SECRET/SENSITIVE
::
NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 24

!
film has been used by Special Operations Group, DDO, in
courses designed to assist foreign government protective
services in protecting their Chiefs of State and heads of
government (see Tab 10).

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 25
:
20
SECRET/SENSITIVE

P. 17
SECRET/SENSITIVE
Has CIA engaged in any activities regarding critics of the
Warren Report, including dissemination of information about
them?

Answer:
Tab 11 contains a copy of Book Dispatch 5847 which transmitted
guidance to certain CIA stations and bases concerning the
countering of criticism of the Warren Report. This guidance
for the field was prepared in response to a rash of books
and articles criticizing the Commission's findings. It was
sent out in April 1967. Our investigations to date have
turned up no other guidance or activities undertaken in this
connection.
:
NW-78141-
Docld:32201361 Page 26...
SECRET/SENSITIVE

SECRET/SENSITIVE
P. 18
Did CIA have a connection with any member of the Odio family,
including knowledge of an abortive plot to kill Castro which
resulted in the imprisonment of Sylvia Odio's parents? Does
CIA have any knowledge of the identities and activities of
three men who reportedly visited Sylvia Odio two months prior
to the assassination of President Kennedy, particularly the
man introduced to her as Leon Oswald?

Answer:
The only relationship between CIA and the Odio family was the
debriefing of Cesar Humberto Odio del Toro, Sylvia Odio's
brother, during the early 1960's on a routine basis as part of
a general program of eliciting positive intelligence from Cuban
refugees in the United States. There is no connection or
relationship between the Agency and the imprisonment of
Sylvia Odio's parents for involvement in anti-Castro activities.
According to our records, Sylvia Odio's parents were not
imprisoned because of involvement in an assassination attempt
against Castro. The following background information concerning
the circumstances surrounding their imprisonment was provided
by Cesar del Toro. The parents of Cesar and Sylvia were arrested
by the Cuban Government in 1961 and sentenced to thirty years
and nine years in prison respectively. They were imprisoned for
participation in an organization named the Movimiento
Revolucionario del Pueblo. Amador Odio Padron had been obtaining
food and medical provisions for the care of Cubans in asylum at
SECRET/SENSITIVE
NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 27

(SECRET/SENSING
various foreign embassies in Havana.
His wife had been
helping him in that activity. Prior to his arrest Amador Odio
Padron had been the owner of Cuba's largest inter-provincial
trailer truck concern. (In fact, our records indicate that
he had used his trucking concern to smuggle arms to anti-
Battista forces during the 1954-56 period.) During the mid-
1960's, Cesar Odio made several attempts to secure the release
of his parents by offering to purchase large quantities of
spare parts and transport them to Cuba.

The identities of the three men who reportedly visited Sylvia
Odio two months prior to the assassination of President Kennedy
were established in the course of the Warren Commission
investigation. (See Report of The President's Commission on
the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, U. S. Government
Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 1964, pp 321-325.)

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 28
23
SECRET/SENSITIVE

Is there any CIA connection with an anti-Castro group which
held meetings at 3126 Hollandale Street in Dallas or with
a Cuban group which allegedly held meetings attended by Oswald
at 3128 Harlendale Street in Dallas?

Answer:
Our file search to date has revealed no information concerning
these two addresses. However, we are not satisfied that all
possible CIA records have been consulted. A final report
concerning this question will be forwarded to the Commission
by 2 May 1975..

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 29
SECRET/SENSITIVE

Hoch's questions

1. Did the CIA intercept a letter & mony order
from Marguerite Oswald to fee Honey O!
shortly after O. defected to Soviet 4. ?

CIA says No.
Mail intercept program discussel in Roots Com
the
e how
меройт
No to investig. made as to how FBI
earned of the letter & M.Order lezosuse
731 functioning not upinour Charter
Even if CIA had intercepted the
Ite & reported it to FBI, it
wo not lee distinguishstice.
from other mail interceptions
You justify a separate investig
The mail intercept program of
of
the C/A was not directed us.
*
Caswald individually.
The Warren Commn Treceved detaile
evid. from the FBI with respect
to the letter & money. O.
Certainly if swall was a CIA
agent, as some have alleged,
the C/A We not have leur reporting
to the FBI on email reed by Ame
such

NW 78141
Docld:32201361 Page 30

NW 78141
C
2. Angleton's "sliminat privy to whe
Strucks John."
-
Angleton.
The whole quotation makes it
C
clear that he was being asked
about CIA activities occurring during
the period of anti-war lechlinge
in this country, and that he
wss responding
&
responding to that question
The reasonable meaning of
his answer was: "There deute a
lot of things going to the
Agenby during that period of
anti-war Ecomlungs, and bel
of everything that
wasint aware.
Levas going
period of
EV.
on in
-The anti-war bombings didn't begin
santil 1967 or 1968, some f
years or more after Pres K's
Death
-
ic
The line "si'm not privy to who
struchs John, is drawn from the
Bible C
is "al don't
and its literary meaning is
Incow.
Docld:32201361 Page 31
