Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10297
RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

September 25, 1998
Status of Document: Postponed in Part
Number of Postponements: 8

The redactions in this document have been postponed under the provisions set forth in The John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

The number within the brackets is provided to represent the appropriate substitute language from the list
below.

Board Review Completed: 08/25/98

2025 Release under the
John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

01 Crypt 
02 Digraph
03 CIA Employee
04 Asset
05 Source
06 Name of Person
07 Pseudonym
08 Identifying Information
09 Date
10 Location
11 Country
12 CIA Installation in Africa/ Near East*
13 CIA Installation in East Asia/Pacific*
14 CIA Installation in Northern Europe*
15 CIA Installation in Western Europe*
16 CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere*
17 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Africa/ Near East*
18 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in East Asia/Pacific*
19 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Northern Europe*
20 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Western Europe*
21 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere*

* The number after the hyphen tracks of individual locations.

22 Dispatch Prefix
23 File Number
24 Operational Details
25 None
26 Scelso (The information is the true name of the
individual whose pseudonym is John Scelso.)
27 CIA Job Title
28 CIA
29 Name of Organization
30 Social Security Number
31 Alias Documentation
32 Official Cover (Details of Official Cover)
98 Information not believed relevant to JFK assassination
99 See the special substitute language above.

Page 197

NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10297
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCK
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE: 04/21/75
PAGES: 210

SUBJECTS :
1 OF
TRANSCRIPT: VOL. 17. PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES.
2. TESTIMONY OF DEAN RUSK, GORDON GRAY, RICHARD M. BISSELL, JR., PAUL
O'NEILL, ARNOLD E. DONOHUE.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : 0
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/94

OPENING CRITERIA :
Postponed

COMMENTS:
Contained in file entitled, "April 21, 1995. 3."

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 09/28/94
Page: 1

8/p/
8119196

GIA HAS NO DEJECTIONDO
DECLASSIFICAND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
BFTHIS DOCUMENT AS SANITLED-8/7/98
See pagea 2370, 23732376, 2377,
-23854 2390

NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 2

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20506

September 12, 1994

Dear Mr. Sheehy:

This is in response to your request, pursuant to the JFK
Assassination Records Collection Act, for NSC staff review of the
transcript of testimony given April 21, 1975, to the President's
Commission on CIA Activities by Dean Rusk, Gordon Gray, Richard
Bissell, Paul O'Neill, and Arnold Donohue. The NSC staff has no
objection to declassification and release of the document subject
to the determinations of the Central Intelligence Agency and the
Department of State.

Sincerely,

David S. Van Tassel
Director
Access Management

Mike Sheehy
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
Room H405
The Capitol
Washington, D.C. 20515

NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 3

The Department of strate
has no objection to the
release or declassification
of this document frone
page 270 through page 2263,

Reviewed on August 11.1994
الله
Trahalua
IM/FPC/HR
Dept. of State

NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 4

TOP SECRET

Vol. 17

PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON
CIA ACTIVITIES

1 OF 2

Washington, D. C.

Monday, April 21, 1975

WASHINGTON, D.C.
410 First Street, S.E., 20003
Phone
(202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
Spoken
Verba
volant- words fly-
scripta
manent
written
words endure

TOP SECRET
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 5

TM
ORIGINAL

FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA
4055 Chain Bridge Rd., 22030
Phone
(703) 273-2400

NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 6

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

CONTENTS

TESTIMONY OF: PAGE
Dean Rusk 2190
Gordon Gray 2263
(AFTERNOON SESSION 2295)
Richard M. Bissell Jr., 2295
Paul O'Neill 2352
Arnold E. Donohue 2365

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT,
the
testimony of form
State Rusk
Jexy-of State
before the Rockfor
Connessive, 21 APR IS
(pk 2190-2282)

12 Aug it

NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 7

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 7
WARD & PAUL
HANBACK:amt
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
VOLUME 17
PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION
ON CIA ACTIVITIES
2189

Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 21, 1975

The President's Commission met, pursuant to recess,

at 10:07 o'clock a.m., in Room 272, Old Executive Office

Building, 17th and Pennsylvania Avenues, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, Chairman of the Commission!
presiding.

PRESENT:
NELSON A. ROCKEFELLER, Chairman

JOHN T. CONNOR, Member

JOSEPH LANE KIRKLAND, Member

LYMAN L. LEMNITZER, Member

EDWIN N. GRISWOLD, Member

EDWARD H. SHANNON, JR., Member

STAFF:
DAVID W. BELIN, Executive Director

ROBERT WALLISON, Staff Member

MARVIN GRAY, Staff Member

SOL CORBIN, Special Assistant to the Vice President

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 8
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
amt 2

TOP SECRET
MR. BELIN:
PROCEEDINGS
Secretary Rusk, if you would stand and
raise your right hand and be sworn, this is Ruth Johnson who is
2190

a Notary Public for the District of Columbia.

MRS. JOHNSON: Do you swear to tell the truth, the

whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

MR. RUSK: I do.

TESTIMONY OF DEAN RUSK

MR. BELIN: Could you please state your name for
the record?

MR. RUSK: Dean Rusk.

MR. BELIN: And you served as Secretary of State, sir,
in the Administrations of John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson, is
that correct?

MR. RUSK: Yes.

Secretary Udall, Secretary Freeman and I were the
only three who served throughout the terms of both Presidents.

MR. BELIN: Secretary Rusk, what is your present
occupation?

MR. RUSK: I am Professor of International Law in the
School of Law in the University of Georgia.

MR. BELIN: And prior to your service as Secretary of
State with the Kennedy Administration, could you give us a little
bit of a summary of your background?

MR. RUSK: Well, I was President of the Rockefeller

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 9
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
amt 3

TOP SECRET
2191
Foundation and General Education Board for about eight years
during the 1950's. During the Truman Administration, with the
exception of a few months when I was Special Assistant to the
Secretary of War, Robert Patterson, I was in the State Department
under Secretaries Marshall and Acheson, first in charge of
United Nations Affairs, then Deputy Under Secretary for
Political Affairs, and then Assistant Secretary for Far Eastern
Affairs.

Prior to that, I had over five years of active duty
during World War II, and prior to that, teaching at Mills
College in California while studying law at Berkeley.

MR. BELIN: During World War II, you were involved
somewhat with intelligence, is that correct?

MR. RUSK: Yes, I was. I was in G-2 from October in
1941 until the summer of 143 when I went out to the China,
Burma, India theatre. There I was Chief of War Plans, and had
a relation with the operations of OSS of the China, Burma, India
theatre.

MR. BELIN: Could you briefly give us an overview from
your personal experience as to what kind of intelligence the
United States government had during World War II?

MR. RUSK: Well, I think it is important for us to
realize that in the background of CIA was a shocking ignorance
of world affairs and situations in other parts of the world at

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 10
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
amt 4

TOP SECRET
2192
the outbreak of World War II. As a Captain in the Army, I was
called back to G-2 in October, 1941, two months before Pearl
Harbor, to organize a new section of G-2 to cover everything
from Afghanistan through the India Subcontinent, Burma, Ceylon,
Malaya, Australia, New Zealand and the British Pacific Islands.
They had no section in G-2 interested in that part of the world
up to that point.

When I got there I asked to see what materials we
had on hand as a start, and I was shown one file drawer by an
old lady named Mrs. North. In that file drawer was one copy of
Murphy's Tourist Handbook to India and Ceylon which had been
stamped Confidential because it was the only copy in town, and
they wanted to keep track of it; one 1925 military attache
report from London on the British Army in India; and then a
considerable number of clippings from the New York Times that
this old lady, Mrs. North, had been clipping since World War I,
and that was it.

Well, I passed my first test, because on the second
day that I was there, a Colonel from the great War Plans Division
of the General Staff called down and said, Rusk, I can't remember,
is Indochina in South China or North China, and when I located
Indochina for him he hung up in great satisfaction and feeling
that he had great intelligence support from G-2.

Now, there is no way to describe how deficient we were
and we had to scramble around and try to find a missionary here

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 11
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
amt 5

TOP SECRET
2193
or a businessman there, or anybody who knew anything about some
of these vast areas and, of course, we could get a good deal of
information from the British, but you couldn't overload those
lines all of the time, because we were starting from scratch.

We flew the hump with maps that were supposed to be
on a scale of 1 to 1 million, but much of the material on those
maps was purely honorary. I mean, I didn't even have maps that
would show us the scale of 1 to 1 million the terrain in which
we were operating. We tried to organize a Burmese language
program in our Army and we looked around the United States for
a native Burman. We asked the Census Bureau for a list of the
people living here who had been born in Burma and they came up
with about twelve names, but most of them were McDougall or
McLanahan, the children of British soldiers who were born in
Burma. We finally found one and we looked him up and he was in
an insane asylum.

Well, we fished him out of the insane asylum and made
a Burmese language instructor out of him.

The impact of this on the need for information after
World War II cannot be exaggerated, because we just ran all the
time, we were running into this factor of ignorance, and so I
think it is important to bear that in mind. And I hope we will
never get caught in that situation again.

MR. BELIN: Subsequent to World War II, with the
build-up of the CIA and other intelligence agencies, of course,

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 12
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
amt 6

TOP SECRET
2194
the information gathering facilities of the U.S. government
became much greater. And I wonder if you have any opinion as
to whether or not we might have at times gone to the other
extreme so far as the storage of information?

MR. RUSK: I think partly because of this absence of
information earlier that we tended to let intelligence become
a thing in itself. I had the impression, for example, that in
the intelligence community, and I don't point the finger at any
particular agency, there developed a kind of a catalogue of
desirable information, almost as a Sears, Roebuck catalogue, and
it was the duty of the intelligence community to fill in all of
discretion?
the blanks. I hope the Commission will use disgression in what
it does with some of the examples I might give here today,
because I don't want to cause difficulty, but for example,
Ambassador David Bruce in London told me that a member of the
British Government had come to him and said, David, don't have
your military attache planes flying over our factories at low
level taking pictures. If you want pictures of our plants, we
will give them to you, but all of this kind of business makes
our workers nervous, and people don't know what's going on.
All they were doing was filling in the blanks, and we tended to
go at it without a direct relationship to what might be called
policy needs. And I think this was one of the inherent senses
of one's ignorance of pre-World War II times.

MR. BELIN: I think you also mentioned during our

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 13
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
2195
amt 7

interview last night that you thought the syndrome of avoiding
another Pearl Harbor might have contributed to trying to collect
a tremendous amount of information, and you gave as an example
the attack on South Korea by North Korea.

MR. RUSK: Yes.

Our intelligence did not predict Pearl Harbor, but
they certainly predicted the Roberts Commission. And I think
that that experience has infected to some extent the intelligence
community.

Now, I once wrote Mr. Schlesinger a little note about
this and one or two other matters when he became Director of
CIA. One of the nightmares of people in the intelligence
community is to have something serious happen which they have
not predicted, and so one of the results of that is that
policy offices get a continual flow of possibilities, 90 or 95
percent of which never happen at all, and the policy officer
has the problem then of trying to sort out which is for real and
which is not. And that is, sometimes, very difficult.

In the case of Korea, after the North Korean attack
was launched, people went back through thousands of bits of
information. They came out with a handful, six or eight pieces
on the basis of which some of them said oh, yes, you see, we
knew this was coming. Well, no one picked up the phone and
called me. I was Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern
Affairs at that time, and no one picked up the phone and called

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 14
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-60000
TOP SECRET
2196
amt 8

me and said the North Koreans are going to attack. On that
evening, I was having dinner with Judge Alsop and Mr. Dace and
Justice Frankfurter, and I certainly would not have been out
having dinner if I knew that an attack was imminent.

Indeed, Mr. John Foster Dulles, who was in Tokyo at
the time, said it was not until the Tuesday after the Sunday
of the attack that the MacArthur Headquarters accepted that it
was anything more than a border incident, and so I think we tend
to multiply alleged predictions, partly to cover your trail in
case something happens, and I think this is something that
policy officers have to get used to, and on which they have to
make some discriminating judgments.

And it emphasizes the importance of multiple sources
of information.

Now, when I was a Special Assistant to Judge Patterson,
the Secretary of War, I personally supported his efforts to
combine all of the intelligence agencies into a single agency
and put them altogether in one organization. I since have
changed my mind radically on that because I think it is very
important that you have not competitive sources of information
but diverse sources of information. One of the several reasons
for the tragic mistake in the Bay of Pigs was that those who
proposing the operation were the same people who were furnishing
the information on which judgments were to be made. And I had
a specific directive from the President not to consult my own

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 15
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
2197
amt 9

Bureau of Intelligence and Research in the Department of State
to get their judgment on the situation inside Cuba.

So I think it is very important that we maintain
diverse sources of information as a kind of check against each
other, among other things, and also because that way you get
some insights and some guesses that might not come through a
single channel.

MR. BELIN: And so what you are saying is that some
duplication, perhaps, so far as the sources on a particular
problem, might not be adverse to the best interests of the
country?

MR. RUSK: Well, I think there should be a very full
exchange of information among the different elements of the
intelligence community. But I think we ought to, that we
ought to have diverse sources of judgment, of analysis, and
matters of that sort.

MR. BELIN: Now, to go back to your previous comment
concerning the Pearl Harbor syndrome and to cover all bases, is
it a fair statement that perhaps the inundation of thousands
of pieces of information to cover all possibilities does not
necessarily lead to the best kinds of intelligence?

MR. RUSK: Well, we are faced, the intelligence
community is faced, with an inherently difficult problem because
of the blizzard of information that has fallen in on the world.

Now, a very large part of the CIA's information

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 16
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
2198
amt 10

gathering has to do with getting materials that are in the
public sector, publications from all over the world including
the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China, and the
sheer management analysis of the information that is available
in the public sector is a massive problem.

Now, the processes by which that mass is reduced to
some estimates or judgments are very important. To some extent,
policy officers are the prisoners of the information they have
available to them, and policy officers should be in a pretty
sceptical frame of mind about decisions. I mean about judgments
of that sort.

Very often we try to get information that is not
present in the real world, and we ought to, I think, be a little
more candid in saying to ourselves that we don't know, but if
you want our guess, here's our guess.

For example, on a certain Tuesday evenining in August,
1968, Russian forces went into Czechoslovakia. We thought later
that we had learned that the Russians had made that decision on
the preceeding Saturday night, three days earlier, Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday.

Now, if we had asked our intelligence community before
that Saturday night whether or not the Russians were going into
Czechoslovakia, there is no way they could know, because the
Russians didn't know. I mean, I used to smile occasionally at
the enormous effort made by foreign people, foreign governments,

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 17
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET-
2199
amt 11

to ascertain our intentions when I knew we didn't have any
intentions, and so I think we ought to distinguish more clearly
between information that is real and information or estimates
that are rather speculative in character.

MR. BELIN: I am going to change the subject now to
the statutes which were adopted by the Congress and which
formed the charter of the CIA.

Last night, you had some comments concerning your
observation of these statutes on the relationship to what has
actually happened since the enactment of the statutes.

MR. RUSK: Well, I think one must bear in mind that
these statutes are the public expressions of the will of the
Congress, and there are some things that you don't say publicly.
You don't lay out in the statute a capability, say, for political
observations in a particular situation. You don't lay out in
the statute, a public statute, the complete functions of the
National Security Agency, for example.

Now, I don't think there was any doubt in the minds of
the Congress over these past twenty-eight years that CIA had
certain capabilities in the political action field as well as in
the espionage, counter-espionage field, or any doubt about the
real purposes and functions of the National Security Agency.

And so although as a matter of law this may raise some curious
questions, I don't think that one can honestly say that the
Congress was in any way misled about what kind of an organization

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 18
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
2200
amt 12

CIA was, or what kind of an organization NSA is.

There was a kind of a common law of the matter behind
the written word, or there was whatever you want to call it, I
will leave that to the distinguished members of your Commission.

But some of these things that have been criticized lately as a
part of the attack on the CIA I do not think can be measured by
reading the exact wording of the public aspects of the CIA
charter.

MR. BELIN: Is it your understanding that at least
the Oversight Committee leaders of Congress did basically know
major areas of policy determination by the CIA?

MR. RUSK: Yes.

To what extent, I don't know. I do know that the
Director of CIA consulted frequently with Senator Russell, for
example. He was the one who had basically handled CIA's budget
since he was chairman of the Armed Services Committee and
practically chairman of the Appropriations Committee because of
the chairman's age, and I know that there were pretty frequent
discussions between the two of them.

I never sat in on any of those, so I can't testify
directly as to what was said. But I had a good many discussions
myself with Senator Russell on a good many foreign policy
matters, and I never heard him complain about feeling that he
needed to be better informed.

MR. BELIN: Now, we also discussed the practical fact

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 19
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET-
2201
amt 1.3

of how CIA in your phrase was drawn into things that other
agencies might not, or might have done if they had had the
money available overtly, but they did not have, and the CIA was
drawn in because CIA had the money.

Is that a fair summary of our discussion?

MR. RUSK: Yes.

A good many things that CIA has done over the years
could have been done directly, and overtly by the Department of
State if the Department of State could have gotten the
appropriations.

For example, support to the National Student Associ-
ation to send delegations to international conferences and
things of that sort, activities similar to the activities of
the British Council in Great Britain. But the chairman of our
Appropriations Subcommittee in the House, Mr. John Rooney,
didn't care very much about things cultural and scientific
exchanges and U.S.I.D. and the Bureau of Cultural Affairs, and
things of that sort, and now here was CIA who was able to come
up with the money and so I think some activities sort of
gravitated towards CIA because Dick Russell got their money
which could have just as well or better been done overtly.

I don't know whether the situation can significantly
change in that respect, but support of things like Radio Liberty
and Radio Free Europe could just as well have been done overtly
by the Department of State as they were attempted on a covert

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Docld:32201382 Page 20
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
2202
amt 14

basis by CIA. A good many things of that sort happened because
they had the money.

MR. BELIN: Secretary Rusk, we also talked about
internal executive oversight about CIA and the role of the
Director of Central Intelligence, the DCI, as the head of the
intelligence community.

Do you have any observations concerning the question
of executive oversight of the Agency, or any suggestions in that
area?

MR. RUSK: Well, as I look back on it, I do have
one specific and potentially important suggestion. CIA by
statute reports to the National Security Council. Of course,
the President is the Chairman, and his decisions in the National
Security Council are the decisions. There is no voting pro-
cedure there. But the statutory members of the National
Security Council, in my recollection, never once sat down and
looked at the major tables and the budget of the CIA. We were
sort of in the intelligence and operational chain of command
in a sense, but not in the administration chain of command.

I would assume that what happened was that the CIA
would take their budget to maybe two or three members of the
Bureau of the Budget, and then it would be discussed briefly
with the President, and then it would be taken down and
discussed with Senator Russell, and that was about the end of
it.

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 21
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
2203
amt 15

In retrospect, I think it would have been helpful if
the statutory members of the National Security Council had at
least once a year taken a look at the organizational structure
and the manning tables and the budget of CIA in order to have
a little bit better feel of not only what was going on but what
might be going on that they would not normally bump into.

So I think that that would be a step, that would be
an improvement that would be desirable.

MR. BELIN: Now, I want to turn to the area of
possible CIA involvement in coup d'etats abroad. Perhaps it is
not within our charter specifically, but you made a comment
last night concerning your eight years as Secretary of State.

MR. RUSK: Well, I have stated publicly, and I have
been continuing to scratch my mind for exceptions, I have
stated publicly that there was some 82 or so in the world
somewhere during the eight years in which I was Secretary of
State. That is unconstitutional changes of government.

There were substantially larger changes through
elections and things of that sort. I don't remember a single one
of those that was triggered by or caused by the CIA.

MR. BELIN: And by those, you mean coup d'etats?

MR. RUSK: Coup d'etat. The coup d'etat.

Now, I think one thing that requires a rather careful
look, and some rather careful distinctions, the CIA people
consider that one of their jobs is to keep in touch with

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 22
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
2204
amt 16

different elements within a population, and they do have
contacts with dissident groups here and there. Sometimes
people in our embassies, mostly CIA people, but sometimes on
the diplomatic side, get inquiries from dissident groups and
various countries as to what the attitude towards the United
States would be in the event of a coup d'etat.

I tried to get the word established that we would not
respond to any such inquiries, partly as a practical matter,
because I suspected that many of these were from provacateurs
of the governments involved and they were trying to find out
what our answer would be to such a question. But I had no
doubts the CIA was in touch with dissident groups, and may have
at times been buying information from them. But that does not
translate in my mind to their calling the shots of it or
becoming the boss or directing a coup d'etat.

MR. BELIN: In your experience as Secretary of State,
were you aware of the practices of other governments and their
intelligence, both in this country and abroad?

MR. RUSK: Yes. To a very considerable extent.

Of course, you always suspect there are practices that you
haven't caught up with, but there is a mean, dirty, unsavory,
back alley struggle going on in the world in which a good many
governments particpate, some of them close friends of ours,
and most of them, including targets in the United States, because
the position of the United States in world affairs is such that

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 78141
Docld:32201382 Page 23
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000rt
TOP SECRET
2205
amt 17

influencing American policy is a major effort on the part of
almost every foreign office in the world. Wherever a dispute
develops, the parties will each come in to try and get the
United States to take their side, and so we are the target of
a great deal of effort to find out what we are thinking, to
influence our decisions and judgments, and a struggle to
undermine some of the things that we are trying to accomplish
in the world.

MR. BELIN: Were you ever aware, for instance, of
forged documents being used to try and put the blame on the
CIA for things?

MR. RUSK: Well, I think there were two or three
instances that I recall. The exact timing and countries I
don't recall at this point. It is somewhere in the records
where forged documents were planted on African leaders to try
to persuade them that CIA was trying to overthrow them.

Fortunately, these forgeries were so crude that it was very
easy to demonstrate that they were, in fact, forgeries, and I
think we were able to satisfy the local chiefs of state that
CIA was not trying to overthrow them.

But there were all sorts of things. If I could
go off the record for a moment?

(Discussion off the record.)

MR.