DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
Doc ID: 6878881
Doc Ref ID: A4268692.
TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10063
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCO [R]
TITLE :
3/0/ITD/T3767-63: EGYPTIAN REACTION TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S MURDER [R]
DATE : 12/31/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
EGYPT, REACTION TO THE ASSASSINATION [R]
ITALY, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878881
Doc Ref ID: A4268692
TOP SECRET DINAR-
Italian ITDP WS 12591 3/0/ITD/T3767-63
IS 31 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO
ST 270
EGYPTIAN REACTION TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S MURDER

FR Cairo: -- 23 Nov 63
TO Rome: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 649

Signed: MAGISTRATI.

Also in Cairo the murder of President KENNEDY has made a
very deep impression.

President NASSER sent the widow a moving and significant
telegram. Actually, and especially very recently, KENNEDY
appeared, particularly as far as Egypt is concerned, a strong
defender of the necessity of the continuation of American economic
aid in favor of Egypt and this was in spite of the active
anti-Nasserian campaign (8G) by the Senate majority in Washington.

Concerning the attitude of the press and concerning
responsibility for the murder, the position (B val is) still
(B val uncertain) but there is no lack of [5M/G] comments
tending to indicate that KENNEDY was murdered (B val mainly)
for the cause of racial equality and for his actions in favor
of the colored people.

MS 78T CN ITDB 50113 ΤΙ
08
Italian 3/O/ITD/T3767-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
