Dor ID: 6879038
Doc Ref IDSECRET MORAY
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10368
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO
TITLE :
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
2X/0/BRP/T133-63 U KETHARA ATTACHS GOVERNMENT; LIKENS FATE OF NEE WIN [R]
DATE: 12/04/63
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : 5
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1, X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc D: 6879038
Doc Ref ID: A4269401
SECRET SABRE

C7142
SECRET
2X/O/BRP/T133-63
IS 4 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO
ST 240
0/26659-63
U KETHARA ATTACKS GOVERNMENT; LIKENS FATE OF
NE WIN TO DIEM AND KENNEDY

FR Mandalay: Assistant Deputy
Inspector General
26 Nov 63
TO Rangoon: Special Branch
[GIST] a
1771/ΝΑ 4
FOR EVALUATION

The Shweman Sayadaw U KETHARA spoke at a religious ceremony
The
which was held from 1900 hours to 2115 hours on 25 November.
ceremony was sponsored by U PAW Eb and took place in the [4G]
Sunshwehlezu quarter which is in the jurisdiction of the Saingdaw
[quarter] police station in Mandalay. Approximately 2500 people
attended, including some 30ỹ monks. The text of the sermon con-
cerned the attainment of Nirvana. There was no (B val elaboration)
on references made to the arrest of CPB/WF members, South Viet Nam,
or the Kennedy assassination. However, in connection with the
talks between the government and the insurgents, the speaker did
GROUP 1
SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE(s)

MS 962 K
CN BRPY 50101 TI 26 Nov 63 043ØZ
Burmese P/L WS 33-3PY-134-63 2X/O/BRP/T133-63

0/26659-63
PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879038
Doc Ref ID: A4269401
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/BRP/TI33-63

SECRET
0/26659-63
say he had come to the conclusion that the government was right.
since the original groups of insurgents were not accomplishing
anything with their demands for statehood.

The Shwe mam Sayadaw said he was about to set to work and
that on a (B val holy day) in the month of Tabaung he would
deliver a sermon which would deal with (XM) the danger of communism
and how it seeks to thwart religion. He said he would also speak
on how the Revolutionary Government (3G) (B val misrules) the
people and how, once the people have been alerted, the government
will be destroyed.

The monk continued by saying that as it has been with the
monks who unhesitatingly banded together and put a stop to the
trouble over the four pagoda colonnades and the (B val number) 45
petrol station, the people likewise will be able to put an end
to their troubles. And today, as it has been with world leaders
✓
like NGO DINH DIEM and KENNEDY, Bogyoke NE WIN likewise will
tremble with fear.
PAGE 2 of 3 PAGE(s)
SECRET

PAGE 2 of 3 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879038
Doc Ref ID: A4269401
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/BRP/T133-63

SECRET
0/26659-63
After apparently making a reference to an historical example
:
in which a king was driven from his country by the people, the
Shweman Sayadaw concluded by saying that in order to attain
Nirvana one should follow the precepts of the eight-goods.

a. Portion of text; remainder irrelevant.
b.
Identified elsewhere as a lumber merchant.
C. Twelfth month of the Burmese year, roughly equivalent to March.
SECRET
PAGE 3 of 3 PAGE(s)

PAGE 3 of 3 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
