Doc ID: 6878973 Doc: TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10307
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCO
TITLE :
3/0/Z-GHD/T1330-63 GHANA ASKS FOR REPRESENTATIVES WITH HIGHER PRESTIGE [R]
DATE : 12/03/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8
TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878973 Doc Ref ID: A4268835

TOP SECRET DINAR

NOT TO BE REPRODUCED IN ANY FORM WITHOUT
PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THE RELEASING
AUTHORITY OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
*******NO FOREIGN DISSEM*****

Ghanaian GHDY WS 1300 3/O/Z-GHD/T1330-63
IS 3 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO

GHANA ASKS FOR REPRESENTATIVES WITH HIGHER PRESTIGE TO ATTEND
KENNEDY FUNERAL

FR Washington: GHANAEMB 23 Nov 63
TO Accra: FOREIGN
Msg Nr: WA/368

For Osagyefo from RIBEIRIO, Repeat to BOTSIO.

Representatives from all states to President KENNEDY's
funeral, scheduled for Monday noon, include Heads of State,
Prime Ministers or Foreign Ministers. In view of this and
protocol involved, I consider Ghana's delegation inadequate
and would humbly advise that considering your own personal
friendship with the KENNEDY's, that you send the Foreign
Minister or Speaker of the National Assembly or Minister
BENSAH, Chief of Protocol, to give prestige and political
importance to your representation. President KENNEDY's interest
in Ghana and his personal regard for you was such that I feel
sure a ministerial representation at his burial would be greatly
appreciated by Mrs. KENNEDY and the administration and further
strengthen good relations between Ghana and the United States.

I should be most relieved if you would graciously and
favorably consider my suggestion. Representatives should catch
Sunday's Pan American flight due here same night.

MS -- CN -- TI --

Ghanaian 3/O/Z-GHD/T1330-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
*********
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
