Doc ID: 6878904
-
--
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10092
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T2037-63: CUBA'S REACTION TO KENNEDY'S MURDER [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
POLAND, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878904
Doc Ref ID: A4268720

TOP SECRET DINAR

*****NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION****
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 522 3/0/W/T2037-63
2 Dec 63

CUBA'S REACTION TO KENNEDY'S MURDER

FR Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs 27 Nov 63 0710
TO New York: Polish Mission to the UN Routine
Msg. Nr. 13376

For the Chief of Mission.

On 24 November CIURUS reported from Havana:

1. All information connected with the assassination is being studied
in detail by the local leadership. They believe the present situation to be
very serious. Their presumption was confirmed by the direction taken by the
search for KENNEDY's murderers, that is among Castroites, Communists and USSR
influence. They are concerned with the anti-Cuban and anti-Soviet past which
will exert a substantial influence on the foreign and domestic policy of the
USA. This will be possible because there is a lack of a head of government
with the authority and modernistic leanings which KENNEDY represented.

2. Ultrareactionary circles in the USA, the Pentagon and the (B val C)
IA considered KENNEDY's policy too weak and conciliatory and its continuation
as dangerous to them. It is believed here that the assassination may be
connected with the partially controversial position of KENNEDY and that it
actually could have been planned or committed by these circles. The fact of
the assassination was immediately used by them to increase positive influences
on the Department of State and to turn world opinion away from the real
culprits and intention.

3. The assassination is being used to strengthen conservative circles
throughout Latin America. They fear that an adventurous decision will be
made with regards to Venezuela.

Polish 3/0/W/T2037-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878904
Doc Ref ID: A4268720

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION*******
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Polish 3/0/W/T2037-63

4. Immediately after the first information was received on 22 November,
a quiet military alert was declared in Cuba. They will begin the legal draft
of recruits on 25 November. Military units are being relocated.

5. FIDEL's speech (see the plainlanguage message of 24 November) was
received with gravity and it was in accord with the political thought of the
more mature circles. An immediate political evaluation of the existing and
growing situation especially around Cuba was needed.

WINIEWICZ

MS CN TI

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
