Doc ID: 6879004 Doc Ref ID: SECRET MORAY DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10328
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE:
2X/0/KOD/T464063 ROK OPINIOIN ON U.S.-FRENCH RELATIONS [R]
DATE: 12/05/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

Doc ID: 6879004 Doc Ref ID: A4269350

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/KOD/T464-63
IS 05 Dec 1453Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET
0/26440-63
ROK OPINION ON U.S.-FRENCH RELATIONS

FR Paris: Ambassador 28 Nov 63 1500Z
TO Seoul: Minister
Msg Nr: --

Daily Situation Report。
President DE GAULLE was the first foreign chief of state
to [decide to] participate personally in KENNEDY's funeral,
(B val conveyed) good will to the American public through the
meeting with the new President JOHNSON, and has decided to visit
America in the spring of next year, etc., and the relationship
of both countries, which has been estranged, has taken a favorable
turn.

However, it is observed that JOHNSON's statement on
27 November saying he will follow KENNEDY's foreign policy
dampened the above expectations.

GROUP 1 PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(S)
SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 27 CN ILC TI 29 Nov 63 09502

Korean (South) KODY WS 311-PRS-48 2X/O/KOD/T464-63

0/26440-63

PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
