Doc ID: 6878919
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/24/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10120
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF PLUS
TITLE :
3/0/Q0D/T80-64: U.S. ANTI-IMPERIALIST GROUP PROTESTS U.S. POLICY [R]
DATE : 05/22/64
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
CUBA, ANTI-AMERICAN ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
Doc Ref ID: A4268755
Doc ID: 6878919
TOP SECRET DINAR

P/L [Spanish] WS 4492 3/0/QOD/T80-64
IS: 22 May 19082 P
Dist: HCF Plus
U.S. ANTI-IMPERIALIST GROUP PROTESTS U.S. POLICY TOWARD CUBA

FR Havana: ILAH WARNER((A)), Secretary 17 May 64
TO New York: U THANT, Secretary General,
United Nations
Msg Nr:

We, the Anti-Imperialist United States citizens residing
in Cuba, vigorously condemn the last Imperialist attack
against the people of Cuba in which a woman and an 8-year old
girl were wounded with United States weapons.

We protest the fascist vandalism of the JOHNSON
Government which came to power through the unexplained
assassination of President KENNEDY, and which is opposed to
Cuba, South Vietnam and the negro population of the United
States. These fascist actions are an insult to our country
and an opprobrium for humanity.

We support the protests of the people and Government of Cuba
against these imperialist aggressions which endanger world
peace.

((A)) ILAH MAE WARNER, Head of Anti-Imperialist United States
citizens residing in Cuba group.

MS 974 CN ILC TI

3/O/QOD/T80-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
