Doc ID: 6878901
DOCTOP SECRET UMBRE:
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10086
TE:03/26/97

RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM :
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T1944-63: UN REACTION TO KENNEDY'S DEATH [R]
DATE: 11/27/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
POLAND, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
UNITED NATIONS, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878901
Doc Ref ID: A4268713
TOP SECRET DINAR
***NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION******
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 367 3/0/W/T1944-63
27 Nov 63
UN REACTIONS TO KENNEDY'S DEATH

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN 22 Νον 63 1900
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Urgent
Msg. Nr. 482

For RAPACKI

First reactions in the UN after KENNEDY's assassination:

1. A unanimous opinion exists that even in the most favorable cir-
cumstances, East-West relations will deteriorate in the next few months and
may last until elections. KENNEDY's assassination will deepen the break in
the Democratic Party between the North and the South. JOHNSON, weak and subject
to influence, will be forced to concentrate on stopping this process. GOLD-
WATER's position will decline which will increase ROCKEFELLER's chances for the
nomination. The results of the elections for the most part will depend on
the popularity of the Democratic candidates. Being mentioned are HUMPHREY,
ROBERT [25-50M] and American journalists in talks emphasize JOHNSON's liberal
past (it is said that he was ROOSEVELT's favorite), and his moderate position
in critical periods during KENNEDY's term.

3. It is alarming that anti-Communist hysteria has been turned on.
Radio and television continue to broadcast unconfirmed reports that held as a
suspect in the assassination is a man who it is said asked for Soviet citizen-
ship two years ago, has a Russian wife and who recently was an activist in the
(Fair Play for Cuba) pro CASTRO organization.

American extremists having great influences in the propaganda
apparatus here want at all costs to be divorced from responsibilities for
the attempt.

MS LEWANDOWSKI
CN TI

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
