Doc. ID: 6879024
Doc RIOPASECRET UMBRA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10348
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO
TITLE :
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

3/0/TUD/T1281-63 KENNEDY DEATH CREATES GREAT SORROW IN MOROCCI; DELEGA [R]
PDATE: 12/07/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
---
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

-TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879024
Doc Ref ID: A4269373

Turkish
TUDN TOP SECRET DINAR
WS N-9006 3/O/TUD/T1281-63
IS 7 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO Plus
ST 280

KENNEDY DEATH CREATES GREAT SORROW IN MOROCCO; DELEGATION TO
ATTEND FUNERAL

FR Rabat: KEMAHLI 24 Nov 63
TO Ankara: Foreign Ministry
Msg Nr: -- --

75.

The assualt to which President KENNEDY was exposed created deep
emotion and regret among the people as well as among government
circles. There have been anncuncements by press and radio about the
life of (B val the deceased) and the great problems which he brought
to successful conclusions,

The King sent telegrams of condolences to Mrs. KENNEDY and
to the new President and he summoned the American Ambassador to
personally express his regrets. Monday, the twenty fifth of the
month, was proclaimed a day of mourning in all Morocco.

A delegation of ten persons, led by Prince ABDULLAH, left for
Washington (6 gr G/U) to represent the King at the funeral ceremony.
Included in this delegation are the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and
[1 gr G], a general and the Director of Palace Protocol.

MS 36 CN TUDB 00114 TI 24 Nov 63 08162
Turkish ✓
3/O/TUD/T1281-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
:
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
