Doc ID: 6878916
TOP SECRET UMBRA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
DATE:03/24/97
PAGE: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10119
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T82-64: MCCLOY DISCUSSED WORK OF WARREN'S COMMISSION WITH POLIS [R]
DATE: 01/29/64
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:
POLAND, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
INVESTIGATION, WARREN COMMISSION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878916
Doc Ref ID::A4268754
TOP SECRET DINAR
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 509 3/0/W/T82-64
29 Jan 64

MCCLOY DISCUSSED WORK OF WARREN'S COMMISSION WITH
POLISH UN DELEGATION CHIEF

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN 27 Jan 64 1010
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Routine
Msg. Nr. 28

For WINIEWICZ

During our talks, MCCLOY, on his own initiative, brought up the subject
of criticism of the European press, especially the French, of the activity
of WARREN's commission.

In a lengthy monologue he condemned accusations that the commission
intends, in the name of public interest, to gloss over the evidence of the
assassination and with its authority support the conclusions reached by
the FBI.

He wants to assure us that he will not permit any distortion or conceal-
ment of the facts; however, from materials at his disposal, he is more and
more convinced that OSWALD committed the crime by himself. I acknowledged
his information with the statement that interest in the commission's report
is great everywhere because of the shock of KENNEDY's assassination and of
the world position of the USA.

McCLOY's statements confirm the opinion circulating here that the
commission is mainly interested in proving that the assassination was not
linked with any foreign centers. At the same time, public statements made

Polish 3/0/W/T82-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878916..
Doc Ref ID: A4268754
TOP SECRET DINAR
HINO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION****
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Polish 3/0/W/T82-64
by MARK LANE, hired by OSWALD's mother to defend her son before the commis-
sion, must be treated very carefully even in our press. Our friends consider
him an unscrupulous politician interested only in his career. He is
financed by groups which lean toward the Chinese viewpoint.
LEWANDOWSKI

MS -- CN -- TI --

- 2 -

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
