Doc ID: 6879065
Doc Ref ID: A4269435
DATE: 09/11/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10166
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CUD/T2456-63 CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRES KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION & CUBA [R]
DATE: 11/28/63
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS:
US BLAMING CUBA FOR ASSASSINATION [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET MORAY

Doc Ref ID: A4269435
SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63
IS 29 Nov 22032
Dist: CF
ST 300

SECRET 0/27282-63
CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION AND CUBAN
ECONOMY

FR Havana Foreign Ministry 28 Nov. 63
TO Accra: Cuban Embassy((A))
Msg Nr: 7555

FIDEL stated, "Events are demonstrating the sinister plot
behind the assassination of KENNEDY. Contradictions show that
OSWALD was made the culprit by the police or was prepared to
commit the act with promise of escape, and was assigned activities
so as to have responsibility fall on or be insinuated against
those whom the perpetrators wished. It is clear that United
States reactionaries tried to make Cuba and the world the victims
of their criminal designs, even at the price of assasinating
their own president. They sent OSWALD to Mexico to request
a
transit visa to Cuba for later travel to the USSR. Imagine
the president's assasin just returning from the USSR and
GROUP 1 PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECIASSIFICATION

MS 19
CN ILC 29 Nov 63-08102
Cuban
CUDY WS 17312 2X/O/CUD/T2456-63

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE
ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE

SECRET SABRE

Doc ID: 6879065
Doc Ref ID: A4269435
SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CIUD/T2456-63

0,27282-63
passing through Cuba. The visa to the USSR he could have
requested from the nearest European country and not have to come
to Cuba to later go to the USSR, which is much farther."

He also said, "By 1970 we will be in condition to surpass
10 million tons of sugar and to export it. The economy begins
to improve solidly. We have sugar sold at close to 10 centavos
for 1965 and 1966. There shortly will bera notable increase in
meats and other articles. At the year's end, nougats, wine
and grapes will reappear as the result of the development of
foreign trade.

GROUP 1 PAGE 2 of 3 PAGE(S)
SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC.
DOMIGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

PAGE 2 of 3 PAGE)

SECRET SABRE

Doc Ref ID: A4269435
SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CUD/T2456-63

SECRET 0/27282-63-
((A)) This is a circular message sent also to Cubar Diplomatic
Missions in Algiers, Athens, Bamako, Beirut, Belgrade,
Berlin, Bern, Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Cairo,
Colombo, Conakry, Copenhagen, Djakarta, Hanoi, Helsinki,
Karachi, Lisbon, London, Moscow, New Delhi, Oslo, Paris
Peking, Prague, Pyongyang, Rabat, Rome, Santiago, Sofia,
Tel Aviv, The Hague, Tokyo, Ulan Bator, Vatican City, and
Vienna

GROUP 1- PAGE 3 of 3 PAGE(s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

PAGE 3 of 3 PAGE(S)

SECRET SABRE
