Doc ID: 6879003 TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10320
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/ITD/T3652-63 POLAND MOURNS DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY [R]
DATE: 12/09/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6879003 Doc Ref ID: A4269341

TOP SECRET DINAR

Italian ITDO WS 30818 3/0/ITD/T3652-63
IS 09 Dec 2155Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

POLAND MOURNS DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Warsaw: AILLAUD 25 Nov 63
TO Rome: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 1340

The dramatic (1 gr G) of KENNEDY (B val made) an immense
impression and (B val caused) profound grief in Poland. An
impressive line of citizens, including military personnel in
uniform, went to sign the register displayed in the American
Embassy. Many, expecially women, carried bouquets of flowers
which they left at the foot of the table (1 gr G) the big
register.

The procession, which started again today, lasted yester-
day and the day before yesterday from the early hours of the
morning until around midnight.

Radio, television, and the press gave lengthy comments
on the late president, reporting his biography and stressing
his intellectual qualities, poise, and courage, not hiding the
concern over the grave loss. Poland will be represented at the
funeral by Professor STANISLAW KULCZYNSKI, Vice Chairman of the
Council of State, and (1 gr U) (B val PIOTSZEWICZ), Vice Chair-
man of the Council of Ministers; while Prime Minister CYRANKIEWICZ,
accompanied by RAPACKI, went to the United States Embassy in
Warsaw to present the condolences of the Polish Government. As
for the Italian Embassy in Warsaw, immediately on Friday even-
ing, as soon as I heard the news, I telegraphed the United States
Ambassador to express my profound condolences and those of all
my associates. (1 gr G) Saturday morning in addition I sent to
Ambassador CABOT a letter of condolence expressing the same
sentiments. Today I shall attend in the cathedral with all the
✓
Italian 3/0/ITD/T3652-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879003 Doc Ref ID: A4269341

Italian TOP SECRET DINAR

3/0/ITD/T3652-63
other embassy personnel the funeral mass in memory of the late
president. Along with the other Western representatives. I
had the flag flown at half mast.

MS UKA-175 CN ILC TI --
-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
