Doc'ID: 6878899
TOP SECRET UMBRA:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10081
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCO
TITLE :
3/0/ARD/T559-63: HUNGARIAN REACTION TO NEWS OF ASSASSINATION OF [R]
DATE: 12/31/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
HUNGARY, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
ARGENTINA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878899
TOP SECRET DINAR
Doc Ref ID. A4268709
Argentine ARDV-3 WS 662 3/0/ARD/T559-63
IS 31 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO
ST 300

HUNGARIAN REACTION TO NEWS OF ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Budapest: VILARULLO 25 Nov 63
TO Buenos Aires: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 67

The Hungarian press, television, and radio reported fully the
assassination of President KENNEDY, attributing it to fascist elements
and inspired by racial hatred. Despite the fact that [1 gr G]
emphasizes the grief and distress of all Hungary, none of the principal
government figures visited the United States Legation to present
personnel condolences and the text of the [1 gr G] telegram sent by
President DOBI was not published. Moreover, the Hungarian funeral
delegation, along with those from Romania and Czechoslovakia, was
of the lowest rank of the countries of this area, acting Foreign
Minister PETER MOD.

Finally while the government officials expressed restrained
grief, the people in general were deeply touched.

MS 974 CN ILC TI --
✓
Argentine 3/O/ARD/T559-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
