Dóc ID: 6878871 Doc Ref ID: A4268769 DATE:03/24/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10143

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : GC/335/78

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: SILVER, DANIEL
TO: KERNS, ARTHUR
TITLE :
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

DATE: 09/07/78
PAGES : 9
!
SUBJECTS:
KENNEDY, JOHN, ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : LETTER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION
!
!
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
!
i
!
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Dọc ID: 6878871

ΝΑΤΙΟΝAL SECURITY AGENCY
CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE
FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: GC/335/78
7 September 1978

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
ATTN: Mr. Arthur Kerns, Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Request for Information

1. Attached is correspondence which Lt Col Paul T. Fisher,
Chief, Security Police, U.S. Air Force Security Service, has re-
quested this Agency to bring to the attention of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation. The materials consist of a letter written by one
David Christensen, a former U.S. Air Force Security Service member,
to a former colleague of Mr. Christensen's who passed it on to the
Air Force Security Service. Also enclosed is Lt Col Fisher's cover
letter to Mr. James Leer of this Agency. Finally, since the photo-
copy of Mr. Christensen's handwritten letter is difficult to read,
a typewritten copy has been prepared for your convenience.

2. The classification markings on the handwritten letter
were applied by the Air Force Security Service. The typewritten
version has been classified CONFIDENTIAL HVCCO, the highest level
affixed to the handwritten letter.

3. Should you feel it appropriate to disseminate the enclosed
materials to any Committee of the Congress, I would ask that you do
so only to members or to staffers who have appropriate SI clear-
ances. The information contained in Mr. Christensen's letter
that the Air Force Security Service was intercepting international
commercial communications at Kirknewton, Scotland during 1963 is
correct, as is the assertion that that station monitored co-
cations links between Lisbon and other parts of the world..

3 Encls:
a/s

DANIEL B. SILVER
General Counsel

>
CDICADHOSS INSAICHEM 13

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Dóc ID: 6878871 Doc Ref

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FOR
HEADQUAR: ERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE SECURIT: SEPLACE
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78243

2 JUN 1978

DirNSA/M5 (Mr Lear)
Ft George G Meade, MD 20755:

Dear Jim

I am forwarding a letter from a former Security Service member to you.
It was furnished to us by the recipient, through his commander, at one
of our subordinate units.

After realizing the implications, true or otherwise, we immediately
notified our unit commander to turn it over to the OSI in Florida,
believing they would contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
since the writer is a civilian now.

Yesterday, this office was contacted by an OSI agent at Lowry AFB, CO;
this agent happens to be an ex-Security Service man. He was instructed
by his headquarters to interview the writer of the letter to determine
the names of other individuals he had contacted. Apparently: Mr. Christen-
sen has a long history of alcoholism, family problems and now wants to
see a "cleared psychiatrist" as he attributes all of his problems from
Oct 1963, per the OSI agent. In addition, he has indicated to the OS1
that he now fears for his life.

I am furnishing this to you as I feel the implication in the letter
should best be handled at the national level and that you are in the
best position to contact the Bureau. I have no knowledge that OSI has
not done this, but in view of the fact the subject was interviewed as
a civilian by an AF agent, rather than an FBI agent, leads me to doubt
this. In addition, you are in a much better position to determine where
the nearest psychiatrist, with access, is located. For your information,
we placed the classification markings on the letter.

We were told by Mr. Coombs, the OSI agent at OSI District 14, that the
doctor to contact at the VA hospital in Cheyenne, WY is a Dr Sedel,
commercial telephone number 778-7550, extension 273.

Warm regards

PAUL T. FISHER, Lt Col, USAF 1 Atch
Chief, Security Police Ltr (Christensen) (C-HVCCO)
CLASSIFIED BY DOD Dir S-5200.17 (M-2)
EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCULE OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 11652
CHON CATEGORY
ASSIFY ON notification by originator

RATCH AME REMOVED, REGRADE T
Corcorante ATCH And MEDVED. AND DECIAL HAN

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doo D: 687887-1 Doe Ref ID: A4268769

VA. Hospital

chih Had to get your addreis
Tapit

Nick, what happened to
Ayt pinter of you for his
-C
now
Lis نصب نگشت
the hi
ich I find a ninsons Drak
daioni ples in 74 had my bag
<
ers.
AL!

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Đọc ID: 6878871; Doc Ref IDSA420

The
203
Jo's where
The
mot

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Dọc ID: 687887-1: Doc ReLIDA436&769;
1-
1
7263
ستار مداح
I will
prot of
The 203" says
C.
with the ITI
م

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
3
HATE VIA COMINT CHANNELS

Doc ID: 6878871 Doc Ref ID A4268769

$
M
Ha
Nort
back to vie
mstd
2
:

Đợc Đ: 6878874 Doe Ref ID A4268-769

What
the hell ari
Be
to hill al
the lonkily B
David 7 thustin
CLASSIFIED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Dọc ID: 6878871
COPY Doc Ref Ref ID: ID: A4268769 A426876
David F. Christiansen
V.A. Hospital
Sheridan, WY 82801

Nick,

Well after 13 1/2 years I finally found out your whereabouts, Dam, its
been a long time since Kirknewton, Scotland, and the beer we drank on the
beach and the club. Had to get your address from the outfit in Texas.

Nick, whatever happened to Sgt Prater? If you know his whereabouts please
send me his address. How in the hell have you been doing?

Nick, I had a nervous breakdown. Plus in 74 my leg shattered in over a
hundred places. Things have really gone to hell for me. I'm working with
the vets benefits counseler, who is a ex 203. Speaking of 203's where the hell
is Frenchy? You know the little guy. What I'm going to say is no longer
classified, so don't get all shit shook. I've done checked it out.

Christ, you remember the position I worked at, in Sgt Praters section, don't
you? You remember about a month or 6 weeks before I left Scotland, when I picked
up a link mentioning the assassination of President Kennedy. How hard I tried
to get it sent out, and because of that fuckin Forney and Delaughter they wouldn'
send it to NSA. Since I have learned that the man's name, most mentioned was
number 4 in a certain branch of organized crime at the time. Was number 2 last
year. I will send you a form for proof of claim. This guy here "the 203" says
I should be getting a service connected disability for my nerves. The "link was"
Lisbon to Tangiers you remember. How I got my ass chewed for not dropping the
link. Have learned that this branch of crime often will put out a feeler, of
forthcoming things. By sending it as a practice message.

Nick it really broke me up after Nov. 22, 63. Especially when I had it all
before hand. It was first like the 202's said, Ha. I was nuts when the Russians
first came out with the ITI & B's. Later proved them wrong didn't I. That was
another first for us as I recall. Duane Bruntz from Baker trick put up a good
support of my claim. I'm sending you this certified so to make sure you get it.
As I recall you should be able to B.S. them good enough to help me. I know it
cost me a divorce and every thing from my wife. Christ, you remember Marlene,
don't you? That good looking little 1/2 Indian girl from N. Dak. Nick when
you get this form send it back to me and I'll let the vets benefits guy to send
it in. Being a M.Sgt I think you know how to bull shit pretty good. Also do
you know Sgt Harley and Sgt Willy Hendrickson's address. I guess old Garnett K.
Tatum retired. Wonder what gehto, he is living in, Ha!

Classified by OIANGA/CROSS INSA/CSS 222-2;
Exempt from CDS, ED 11637 Cat
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
مدرسة

Doc $78871
(POONFIDENTIAL
What in the hell are you doing in Florida, any how? Be sure to put
emphasis on my nerves going to hell and not giving a shit about my work after
the interception of the message.

Y Y Prosign

Your old buddy from the Berkely Bar.

David F. Christensen

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
