DocID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466 Date:10/16/95
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10202
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: G/WQ [R]
TITLE :
2/0/CURUJ/R66-63 STATUS OF CUBAN/SOVIET COMMS AS OF 29 NOV 1963 [R]
DATE : 11/29/63
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
SOVIET MILITARY COMMS BETWEEN MOSCOW & HAVANA
SOVIET COMMS WITHIN CUBA [R]
SOVIET AIR & AIR DEFENSE COMMS [R]
CUBAN COMMS [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

- [R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Doc ID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

19 Now 63 21038
81 011, 021,052,
101, 255, 401

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
Fort Gauge G. Maude, Maryland

COMINT REPORT

Doc ID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

CRET KIMBO
2/0/CURUJ/R66-63
29 Nov 63 21032
DIST: G/WQ
ST 011, 021, 051,
101, 255, 401

STATUS OF CUBAN/SOVIET CORENICATIONE AS OF 29 NOVEMBER 1963

PART I A: SOVIET MILITARY COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN MOSCOW AND HAVANA

The Soviet Ministry of Defense-subordinated link "B" between
Moscow and Havana continues to be active in both Morse and radio-
printer scrambler as late as 28 November 1963. Operator chatter
sent in reverse order again was noted on 20 November. The last
tive this chatter was observed we on 15 October.

PART I B: SOVIET COMMUNICATIONS WITHIN CUBA

Since 12 November 1963 three koown attempts to break in on
Soviet/Cuban commandations activities have been noted. The first
attempt was made on the Air Defense link between Limonar and a
terminal suspected of being in the San Julian area. On that
occasion, an activity utilising the callsign NOC contacted one of
the Soviet operators and queried him as to his location and
whether there was any traffic for him. A cowersation of approxi-
macely 10 minutes ensued, containing repeated queries as to the
location of the Soviet station, before the Soviet operator terminated
the schedule.

Later the same day a possible second attempt of the same type
was ande. This time, the link interrupted was the Air Defense link
between Linegar and Sagus le Grande, and the unidentified activity
used the callsign NSS. Again the Soviet terminated the conver
sation without divulging any information as to his whereabouts,

On 15 November, an attempt was made by an unidentified activity
to portray itself as net control of the Soviet Naval network in
Cuba. At 21022 the station made a collective call utilising the
correct signals for the day. However, the accept was abettive as
a result of the rather poor simulacion of Soviet procedure,
Minutes after the attempt the control of the Soviet neval net sent
a warning to the other startonst "some other station is working
with our celisigns,"

Sowar of the death of President RED was noted on the Naval
net on 23 November, Operator chatter messages were noted which
asked for details of the assassination. The only details men-
tioned were chat "Yesterday in Dallas he was shot by a sniper
with a large calibre (rifle) Mortally wounded JON KENNEDY,
Be died,"

During the past werk nine Soviet Forses Cuba HP Links used
scrambler. They were as follows: the two subordinated links
with both terminals in the Ravane area, rise unsubordinated link

Doc ID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET KIMDO
2/0/CURUJ/R66-63
between the Havana and Holguin areas, the new Air Defense-associated
link between the Havana and Camaguey areas, the Limonar-Pinar del
Rio and Sagua la Grande links of the Western Sector Weapons Control
Group and the Camaguey Victoria de las Tunas and Santiago de Cuba/
areas of the Kastera Sector Weapons Contral Group, and a new
Limonar-controlled Air Defense-associated link on which scrambler
as first heard 21 and 22/23 November. The outstation terminal of
this new link is unlocated, Soviet scrambler activity was noted
as late as 23 Novesber on Cubau microwave facilities and
27 November on Soviet multichannel/VHF (R-401) facilities.

PART I CE SOVIET AIR AND ALS TREINSS COMMUNICATIONS

The subscriber to the Soviet Forces Cuba (SFC) Western Sector
Weapons Control group located at San Antonio de los Banos continues
to be inactive in HF Horse comunications as of 27 November. The
station was last noted active on 15 October 1963. It is possible
that the air defense-associated link between Limonar and an unlo
cated station is now serving the lespean control group function.
Scrambler communications were noted on the link on 21 November, for
the first time, and agala on 22/23 November.

All three of the subscribers to the Eastern Sector Weapons
Control Group reappeared in BF More cornunications on 21 November
1963. The stations at Santiago de Cuba, Victoria de les Tunas, and
an unrecovered location had not been heard in HP Horse communica-
tions since 23 October, 02 November, and 06 November, respectively.
No explanation can be offered at this time for thesa periods of
Morse inactivity.

The Soviet Forces Cuba radas reporting groups continue to
use the Cuban low level edhe system (see 2/O/CURUK/R203-63) as
of 27 November 1963. As the past, both radar operational and
Spanish Imnguage generypted in the system.

Conversations on Sov. VHF multicharmel (2-401) radio relay
Facilities on 11 November 1963 between SAM reginental head-
quarters at Victoria de las Tunas and a subordinate SAM site at
Los Angeles revealed that some Soviet SAM personnel would arrive
In Cuba about 20 Noveuber alward a vestel which departed Lenfhgrad
on 05 Novesbar. There was no reference to the total number of
personnel arriving; however, the speaker at the regiment Indicated
that he knew two of the individuals win vare arriving. The names
of the individuals have not been previously observed in Soviet SAM
communications in Cuba.

A conversacice do 08 October 1963 batasan probable Sall regi
mental headquarters santiago las veges and a subordinate SAM
site at Siguenea Airfield contain a reformace to Mexico. The
speaker at the regiment stated "TURKA (further unidentified)
is arriving in a few days, ich? A. You know, YUKBA? Well
they are (IG) together with his son, hash? They
have an endless plan, do you understand? Just to go...yes...
of course."

Doc ID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63
Also discussed was the arrival of aircraft from the Soviet
Union and the question of nail being aboard the flight which
arrived at Havana on 08 October. A TU-114 did arrive in Cuba on
08 October and two 10-114 aircraft arrived Cuba on 11 October.
In addition to the country of Mexico, there are three places in
Cuba that bear that name; they are ac 21-18 77-16W, 21-46N
77-48M, and 21-18N 77-33N. There are no Soviet SAM installations
near any of these locations.

Radio operators on SFC sir defense comunications continue
to make reference to inexperienced operators. Ic is possibly sig-
nificant that experienced operators are manning the sets during the
times of the GOLDEN TREE missions. Radio operators have also dis-
cussed the departure of the Soviet vessel KALININ.

Five intercepts of missile/target tracking S-band FAN SONG
(BF 29) radars have been reported by ELINT sources during the
past week. A brief intercept at 13342 on 23 November tends to con-
fira operation of the band version of FAN SONG radar at the Punta
Brava site (23-01 82-31M). Other S-band FAN SONG sites noted
active were Mariel, Managua, Havana East and Matanzas.

ELINT information indicates S-band FAN SONG radars in opera-
tion at fourteen of the twenty-four SAM sites in Cuba, including
two emitters located at San Julian

S-band FAR SONG interceta have occurred daily since
11 November 1963, except fonday, 24 Fovember. The duration
of the target tracking sigmis recorded thus fer in November has
averaged less than four minutes, with approximately fifty percent
of the recent intercepts not exceeding one minute in duration.
The longest recent intercept occurred on 15 November for a
period of approximately 19 minutes. The majority of intercepts
during the current monch have occurred during morning hours;
however, intercepts after 1700% were reported on 14, 20 and
23 November.

PART II: CUBAN COMMUNICATIONS

Cuban microwave facilities revealed a new communications
link serving the Anti-Air Defense/Revolutionary Air Force (DAA/
FAR) Headquarters and a date CRAF facility at Varadera
on 14 November 1963. The cominal ac Varadero has subsequently
been active on 19 November 1963 and was referred to in a conver
sation between the Anti-Air Defense/Revolutionary Air Force (DAA/
FAR) Headquarters and an unknown terminal on 22 November 1963.
Activity has consisted of sommations chatter with only one
message, requesting oxygen taks and oil, having been noced on
14 November. This link any presage an increase of ivity at
Varadero.

PART III A CUBAN GROUND PROCES
The conttrustion of operacions by Anti-Insurgent Forces (ICB)
SECOUT KIMBO

Doc ID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63
in the Escambray Motain area has been observed in COMINT during
this reporting period. In addition to the ICB forces reported to
be participating in chis operation, the deployment of Western Army
troops to the area indicates an increased operational effort(
(2/0/CU3/R55-63 and 2/YT/C/R113-63).

Several references to a combing operation utilizing the com
bined efforts of the Department of State Security (DSE), Depart-
ment of Public Order (DOP), and the coastal vigilance observation
post force ware geflented in messages from Central Army HQ, Santa
Clara, to MORTAR, Revana, on 23 November. This operation was
affected at Cayo Aliqui (22-22M 79-11W), Municipality of Yaguajay,
In order to apprehend persons attempting to flee the country
(2/SL/CUM/R293-63).

There were also several messages about an operation in the
Sagua La Grande area of Las Villas Province. An insurgent band
consisting of three individuals was captured at San Pedro Farm,
in the Municipality of Corvalillo (22-59M 80-36%), on 21 November.
Members of LCB Military Unit Number 3009 (San Vicente, 22-55N
80-296) were apparently utilized for this operation
(2/SL/CUM/R286-63, 2/13/M/R292-63).

Reference to a new organisation" was observed in a message
intercepted on Anti-surgent Forces communications at 21262 on
26 November. The Chief of Personnel, ICB Division, Trinidad,
ordered the Chiefs of Personnel of his subordinate battalions to
report to his headquarters to try to resolve the new organization.
Sinco mention was made of a new organization and not "reorganiza-
tion," the possibility exists that this is in reference to tha
Cuben Government's Anti-Raider Forces (LCP). Prior references to
LCP have not been observed in this particular area, substantiating
the possibility of the LCP organisation in southern Las Villas
Province (2/13/COM/8301-63).

The bilateral field minivers conducted by elements of the
Central Army during the period 25 to 30 November ware apparently
witnessed by officials representing Ground Forces elements through-
out Caba. Invitations to observe these maneuvers were extended to
officials or delegations of Western Army Headquarters and First
Army Headquarters, Anti-Air Defensa/FAR, and Haval Headquarters,
Havana, Representatives from MINFAR were also invited, and all
observers were to be at Cienfuegos by 21002 on 24 November, indi-
eating that the rovers (or at least some phase of these
mapeuvers) were to be held in the Cienfuegos area (2/SL/CUJ/R20-63)

An interest of the Cuban Military intelligence in the U.S.-
Latin American military exercise ('Cabeza de Playa America"), to
be held next week in Colombia, was evidenced by the intercept of
a uszsége in welch the Cid of of Intelligence at First Army Readi
quarters reported the exercise to hte counterpart in Guantanans
on 21 November 1963 (2/LK/син/1185-63).

Doc ID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

2/0/CURIJJ/R66-63
All subordinates of the First Army Headquarters in both
Bastern and Southwestern Oriente sere placed in an alert statu
at 23202 on 22 November 1963 (2/LRL/CUM/187-63).

The urg: ot need of food at the Pilon (probably 19-56N
77-198) Coastal Battalion was revealed in a message from the
Chief, South Sector, Sierra Meestica Headquarters, Pilon, to Chief
of Services, First Army Headquarters, on 25 November 1963
(2/LR1/COM/T663-63).

PART IT BE CUBAL SEX CONJUGATIONSS

One of the LP's, the IC-250, has suffered one
of the first sccidents involving a ROMAR vessel in Cuba. At
approximately 08302 on 26 Noveber the LC-250 ran aground while
ente ing the port of Mariel, sustaining uncontrollable leaks.
Salvage vestele saut to the scene Included the GC-59, 80-11,
and LV-28; they were estimated to have worked until 2215z, when
it was reported selvage operations were couplate (2/QS/CUN/R679-63
and 2/3L/001/135-63). The 10-250 is now in drydock, presumably
at Hariel (2/QS/CUN/R585-63).

A Geben motorship named the INDALSCIO was forced by passengers
to put into the Conceivenolie on 26 November. For persona
aboard the vessel were reported to have taken asylum at the base but
a reliable collateral source states that 15 parsons remained at the
base and four others returned with the INDALICIO. The vessel was
escorted by a destroyer to the canal leading to Calmanera
(19-596-75-07 from the Nevalanse (2/LL/CUM/8190, 186-63 and
2/Qs/ct/8681-63), Alster raport disclosed that 12 passengers and
5 craneo, including the ship's captain, remained at the Guantanamo
Naval Base (27.81/CM/3191-63)28

An alert which begin on 22 Bovenbur in Ortente Province was
apparently propted by the death of President KENNEDY. While no
orders or ditentives have been noted canceling the alert, there
were Andiuntions that is probably me to terminate on 25 November.
On 23 Rovember instructione vere passed from Banes to a subordi-
nate unit that leaven coil te granted to 25 percent of its
personnel (2/0/003/936-63
270/CUN/R196-63).

The USNS JOSEPH E. HUILER, TAC-171, has been the subject
of recurring Cuban rojores concerning its position. These re-
porto bave been noted being passed from Ravana to Cabanas, the
KOMAR-class 2CHO Headquarters. The raports were firet noted in
September and have continued until November (2/0/C:/K195-63).

The Cabanas Naval Baan was inforsed on 23 November hy Naval
Readquarters in Havn that there would he exercises scheduled
from 23 to 30 November in the tey trest sees by U.S. aircraft. The
exercices would leclude pyrotechnical and lateral firing, air to
ground Elring and illumination practices. The inforation was
reported to have been obtained by our sources." These sources
were not identified (2/SL/CUM/830-63).

Doc ID: 6879105 Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET KIMBO
2/0/CURUJ/R66-63
The coast guard vessel GC-79 was ordered on 22 November to
patrol an area from 22-49M 83-47W to 22-50N 63-39w to intercept
some pirate vessels. Later the vessel was directed to patrol from
22-43084-028 to a point 20 miles north of Bahia Honda and then
to go to Havana upon completion of the assignment. Apparently,
chis mission was carried out without success since there have been
no further reflections of the pirate vessels (2/0/CUN/R198-63 and
2/QS/CUN/R554-63).

The location of the Anti-Pirate Organization (ICP, LUCHA CONTRA
PIRATAS) Mus revealed as in the Bestern as well as in the Central and
probably Eastern portions of Cuba shen a Captain (PNU) PANTOJA, iden-
tified as the Chief of the ICP, cuthorized the installation of some
unidentified equipment at in observation post in the western Naval
District. A Major PEDRO LUIS RODRIGUEZ has been noted as ICP Com-
mander; it is believed that Capt PANTOJA Is Commander of the
Western LCP forces or possibly a local LCP commander in the
Wescurn Naval District, the LCP is probably subordinate to the
Anti-Insurgent Forces (2/0/CIJ/R56-63).

There has been only one incer-area movement noted in the period
covered by this report. On 27 Movember intercept disclosed that the
frigate P-543, which has been operating out of Cienfuegos since
28 August 1963, was to return to Havana. On 29 November the 7543 re-
ported it had entered Western Naval District jurisdictional waters.
The time of departure Eton Cienfuegos was not observed
(2/qs/CL/8680-63).

A possible antistroreft Heing practice was held, probably in
the Cabanas area, on 26 November from 1500z to 18002. The firing
consisted of 37-marciiley planes. It was reported that an area
higher than 5,000 meters or further than 300 meters from the coast
would be considered safe (2/81/cw/R32-63). 0

The KOMAR-cinas POND's (LC) were active in various practices
during the work. Two LC's were involved in K-2 technique training
from 2423592 to 2503002. On 28 November, four LC's participated
in an undet andre type of practice in the Cabanas/Mariel area
from 10002 το 1700 (2/70/1670-63, 1672-63, 8682-63).

In the Eastern Restrict the 00-55 was engaged in night
exorcises of a three-fold natures there was training of officers
in night navigation, familiarization of local comunications pro-
cedures, and a radar sxencian (probably a radar calibration test
for Punta de Halas) (see 2/0/CUM/8192-63).
