Doc ID: 6878971
Dee -TOP SECRET UMBRA-

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10306
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF

TITLE :
3/0/GAD/T139-63 CHO EN LAI MAY VISIT AFRICA IN DECEMBER

DATE : 11/23/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
THREAT, PRESIDENT LIOU CHAO CHI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878971
Doc Ref ID: A4268834

TOP SECRET DINAR

Guinean GADB-1 [French] WS 226 3/O/GAD/T139-63
IS 23 Nov 21572 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

CHOU EN LAI MAY VISIT AFRICA IN DECEMBER

FR Peking: AMBAGUINEE 23 Nov 63
TO Conakry: President of the Republic Priority
Msg Nr: 856AGP6307

I have the honor to inform you of the following:

I learned from an unofficial source that Premier CHOU EN
LAI will leave Peking on 13 or 14 December for an official visit
in Egypt whence he will visit other African countries, among
them Guinea, Ghana, Mali. [5G] not have confirmation of this
information despite several demarches to Chinese Protocol.
This discretion seems due to the fact that the Chinese Govern-
ment is (B val using) every means to avoid a reoccurrence of
the assassination attempt to which President LIOU CHAO CHI was
subject when he visited Cambodia.

I continue my investigations. I will keep you informed
as soon as possible.

As I finish this telegram, I learn of the assassination
of President KENNEDY. The British flag has been furled and
creped since this morning.

Very high consideration, MOMO BANGOURA

MS UKN-227 CN ILC TI --

Guinean 3/0/GAD/T139-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
