Doc ID: 6878932 Doc Ref ID: A4268784 DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10280
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO :

TITLE :
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER OPSUM #2028
DATE : 11/27/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878932 TOP SECRET DINAR

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER

OPSUM # 2028

This internal NSA report summarizes significant intelligence
developments, arranged by area of occurrence, and operational
developments of general interest. The material contained
herein was selected from SIGINT, collateral and press received
in the NSASCC between 260700z- 2707002 November 1963.

CURRENT SIGINT READINESS STATUS

READINESS AREA ESTABLISHED STATIONS INVOLVED

ALFA Iraq 18 Nov (DIRNSA) USA-36, USM-4, USN-16

ALERT ONE Iraq 18 Nov (GCHQ) UKM-257, UKA-282, UKF-222,
UKN-227, UKM-262, UKA-278

INTELLIGENCE DEVELOPMENTS

CUBA

1. The alert in Oriente province, apparently prompted by the
assassination of President KENNEDY, is believed to have
terminated on 25 November (2027.1). Access to the coastal
observation post at Punta Maisi was restricted only until 25
November, and Eastern Naval District units, which were to receive
further instructions regarding the alert on 25 November, have
apparently not received any such orders. Further, the Cuban navy
held an island wide communication exercise on 25 November. Such
an exercise is unlikely under alert conditions. (2/0/CUJ/R58-63,
2602192)

B-1 Comment: It is possible that the restriction regarding access
to the Punta Maisi observation post extended to other observation
posts in Oriente as well, and that the restriction was to be lifted
on 25 November by all of these posts.

Page 1
(2028 - 27 November 1963)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
