Doc ID: 6878998 Doc Rer SECRET MORAY DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10297
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CED/T102-63 CONDOLENCES FROM CAMBODIAN PRIME MINISTER ON DEATH OF [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc. ID: 6878998 Doc Ref ID: A4268812

SECRET SABRE 2X/O/CED/T102-63
IS 24 Nov 14312 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET 0/26558-63
CONDOLENCES FROM CAMBODIAN PRIME MINISTER ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT

FR Phnom Penh: -- 23 Nov 63 1351
TO Washington: President Priority
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
Msg Nr: 52 PCM/SP

Cambodia has just learned with astonishment and conster-
nation of the assassination of President JOHN KENNEDY, in
whom we recognized one of the noble statesmen of this era.
His tragic passing will be mournfully felt by all peace and
justice loving people.

In the name of the Royal Government and personally, may I
offer our heartfelt condolences and pray you believe that the
Cambodian people share the affliction of the American people
and the cruel sorrow which has struck the entire world.

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 57 CN ILC ΤΙ 23 Nov 63 10472
Cambodian F/L (French) WS 31-CXX-14463 2X/O/CED/T102-63

0/26558-63

PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878998 Doc Ref ID: A4268812

SECRET SABRE 2X/O/CED/T102-63

SECRET 0/26558-63

With reverence we salute the memory of the Great
President, who keenly desired (11G) for all nations and all
races.

SECRET PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
