Doc ID: 6878950
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE: 1

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10082
RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE:
3/0/BLD/T2004-63: BRAZILIAN AMBASSADOR ASSESSES JOHNSON ADMINISTRATIO [R]
DATE: 11/27/63
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:
BRAZIL, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
BRAZIL, REACTION TO JOHNSON [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878950 Doc Ref ID: A4268710 TOP SECRET DINAR
Brazilian BLDO WS 2449-2450 3/0/BLD/T2004-63
IS 27 Nov 16452 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

BRAZILIAN AMBASSADOR ASSESSES JOHNSON ADMINISTRATION

FR Washington: Brazilian Embassy 26 Nov 63
TO Rio de Janeiro: Foreign Ministry Urgent
Msg Nr: 825

[2-part message complete]

Nr. 825.
Confidential.

The personality and political background of President LYNDON
B. JOHNSON, as well as the circumstances which brought him to
power, seem to indicate that American foreign and domestic
policies, under the new Administration, will probably adhere to
the following basic directives:

1. In the short run, as a natural result of the momentum
of a strong Administration, such as that of President KENNEDY, no
profound changes are expected, especially in the field of foreign
policy (President JOHNSON has already stated that he will follow
the foreign policy of President KENNEDY);

2. In the longer run, however, one can foresee:

A) In the field of foreign policy, with the pre-
dominance of the State Department over the White House "staff"((A))
(which reflected the strong personality of President KENNEDY and
his marked interest in international policy), there probably
will be:

I) No substantial change from the KENNEDY line
in relations with the Soviet Union; the new Administration will
tend toward a wait-and-see attitude;
Brazilian 3/O/BLD/T2004-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878950 Doc Ref ID: A4268710 TOP SECRET DINAR
Brazilian 3/O/BLD/T2004-63

II). In the field of relations with Western
Europe, or more precisely with France, a less rigid attitude
and one of greater acceptance of the French position, with the
objective of maintaining a united Western front vis-à-vis the
possibility of a political offensive by the Kremlin;

III). In relations with Latin America, the inter-
view which President JOHNSON will have this afternoon with the
Foreign Minister will certainly be more enlightening than any
prediction made at this time;

B) In the field of domestic policy, there will possibly
be an improvement in relations between the Executive and the
Legislative within the line of "compromise" ((A)); the new Presi-
dent, much more the conservative than the innovator, with intimate
connections with the Congress, and a Southerner, will have more
facility in [gaining] approval of the big bills ("civil rights,"
"fiscal reform," "medical aid," "aid to the aged," etc.) precisely
because he will accept more conservative formulas of compromise;
the new Administration will also tend to be more conservative with
regard to government intervention in the economy; however, radical
changes cannot be expected, since JOHNSON will also face the
pressure of the more liberal wing of the Democratic Party, and
any more pronounced split within the Party would be fatal to the
hopes for victory in next year's election.

ROBERCAMPOS

((A)) English in text.

MS -- CN -- TI --

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
