Doc ID: 6879106 Doc Ref ID: A4269447 DATE: 10/05/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10175
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : JULIA WETZEL, LAO
TO : NSA

TITLE : VISIT TO HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
DATE : 11/28/78
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS: LETTER DETAILING REQUEST ONLY - NO DOCUMENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION : C
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879106 Ref ID: A4269447

CONFIDENTIAL
COMINT CHANNELS

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 28 November 1978

SUBJECT: Visit to House Select Committee on Assassinations

1. On 21 November I visited House Select Committee on Assassinations
spaces to review for classification purposes the report Messrs Cornwell
and Klein wrote following the 17 November interview with Sgt Nicholas B.
Stevenson, USAF.

2. The report, about one and a half pages long, listed the participants
in the interview and described generally the substance of the discussions.
Although it did not mention the specific site to which Sgt Stevenson and
Mr. Christensen were assigned, it did say that the facility was able to
collect the Lisbon-Tangier link. The report further mentioned "intercept"
and "NSA" in several places.

3. I told Mr. Cornwell that as written, portions of the report should
be classified "CONFIDENTIAL, HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY." He agreed
to classify it and asked me to mark it which I did. I suggested that with
a few changes we could make it unclassified. Mr. Cornwell stated that he
would prefer to retain the original language of the report at this time
but that if it was to be used in any unclassified report by the Committee,
he would then ask us to review the wording so that classified information
would not be disclosed.

4. Mr. Cornwell asked if NSA had determined whether the conversation
Mr. Christensen referenced had been published and disseminated in product
channels. I told him that we had not yet determined the answer to that
question and that we would be back in touch.

JULIA B. WETZEL
Legislative Affairs

DISTRIBUTION:
DIR
D/DIR
ADPL
D4
GC
DDM
M5
DDO
Exec/DDO
G FY/
LAO

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

CONFIDENTIAL
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
