JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10378
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: USN
FROM: USN-27
TO: DIRNSA
TITLE :
CONDOLENCES ON MR. DEAKRSK, SECRETARY OF STATE
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: C
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

NNFXZGZC ADA274Z AC562HZ2'2
PP YEK AAH
DE YMZAH 75B 23/1207Z NOV
7K7K PP AND DE.

P 312082
FM USN 27
TO DIRNSA
ZEM
OCON ID 1 IAL COMIT CHANELS
ILCT SA-PI1 VND 23N01150263 USN 7

FM827
IGON 48 23 1906
HS EXCELLENCY MR DEANRSK SECRETARY
OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS WASHINGTONDC

ETREMELY EXCITED TO HER THE LATE PRESIDENT KENNEDY
MURDERED YESTERDAY AFTENOON WE INTERSECT COMITTEE IN
BUDDHISM OF VITNAM RESPECTFULLY SEN YOU AND US.

GOVENMENT OUR SINCERE WORS OF CONDOLENCE
REV THICH TAM CHAU CHAIRMEN OFINTERSECT COMMITTEE
ACOL MR DEANRUSK SECETARY OF STATE REV THICH TAM CHAU
F/MC
0720

sheet contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U. S. C
Tiang 793, 794 ond 798, the transmission or the revelation of whichs in ony mount to an uncurhatized person is prohibited by law.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
