Doc ID: 6879044 Doc RFID KOODA DATE: 10/09/98.
PAGE:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10373
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/BVD/T225-63 BOLIVIAN UN AMBASSADOR SUGGESTS ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS [R]
DATE: 12/04/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DEOL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879044 Doc Ref ID: A4269408

TOP SECRET DINAR

Bolivian BVDY WS 1122 3/0/BVD/T225-63
IS 04 Dec 1927Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

BOLIVIAN UN AMBASSADOR SUGGESTS ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS SCULPTURE
FOR KENNEDY TOMB

FR New York: CABALLERO TAMAYO 23 Nov 63
TO La Paz: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 202

I am taking the liberty of suggesting that you initiate
conversations with countries of the hemisphere to donate a
mausoleum or sculptural allegory on the Alliance for Progress
for the tomb of President KENNEDY.

MS 974 CN ILC TI --

Bolivian 3/0/BVD/T225-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
