Doc ID: 6878914
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10097

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]

TITLE :
3/0/MXD/T1657-63: MEXICAN AMBASSADOR REPORTS SOVIET REACTION TO [R]

DATE: 11/30/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
USSR, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc ID: 6878914
TOP SECRET DINAR

Mexican MXDN WS 15532 3/0/MXD/T1657-63
IS 30 Nov 20272 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300

MEXICAN AMBASSADOR REPORTS SOVIET REACTION TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S
ASSASSINATION

FR Moscow: LUCIO 29 Nov 63
TO Mexico City: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 201

In reference to the repercussions in the Soviet Union to
the assassination of President KENNEDY.

Basing the first on personal judgment and the rest on infor-
mation from reliable diplomatic sources, I will discuss the following
evaluations:

The deep grief produced here by the above-mentioned assassina-
tion was absolutely spontaneous and due to the high culture of
the Soviet people which enables them (1 gr G) rise above world
actions as well as to the traditional Russian sentimentality.

As soon as the news was known, and in the face of possible
international complications, the military authorities intensified
security measures which have now returned to normal.

High Soviet officials are preoccupied with the stand the
new President of the United States may take on everything regarding
Cuba, and, although MIKOYAN seemed to have been (B val impressed)
after speaking with the President and other high-ranking United States
officials, they are moderately calm. Soviet leaders will wait
to learn how the matters of the purchase of wheat will be settled
in the United States as well as the reaching new U.S.-Soviet cultural
agreement, for the purpose of gaining a clearer idea of the policy
in question.

MS 19 CN ILC ΤΙ 29 Nov 63 17287
Mexican 3/O/MXD/T1657-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
