Doc ID: 6878876
Doc 4268697
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE:1
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10069
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO [R]
TITLE :
3/0/W/T1595-63: INFORMATION REQUESTED ABOUT FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES' [R]
DATE: 11/26/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
AUSTRIA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878876
Doc Ref ID: A4268697
TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEM**
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in whole or in part
is prohibited except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

Austrian AUDE WS 625 3/O/W/T1595-63
IS 26 Nov 63 P
Dist: HCO

INFORMATION REQUESTED ABOUT FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES' ATTENDANCE
AT KENNEDY FUNERAL

FR Vienna: Foreign Ministry 23 Nov 63
TO Washington: Embassy --
Msg Nr: 55065

Wire as quickly as possible whether, according to information
available in Washington, despite the dissuasion of the State
Department representatives or special ambassadors of foreign
governments will participate in the funeral ceremony for KENNEDY.

MS -- CN -- TI --
Austrian 3/O/W/T1595-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
