GEODET NORAY
Doc ID: 6878874 Doc Ref ID: A4008 DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10080
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CUD/T2433-63: CASTRO MAKES STATEMENT ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT [R]
DATE: 11/27/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET SABRE─
Đọc ID: 6878874 Doc Ref ID: A4268708 2X/O/CUD/T2433-63
IS 27 Nov 00372 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET 0/27227-63

CASTRO MAKES STATEMENT ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Havana: Foreign Ministry 25 Nov 63
TO Accra: Cuban Embassy((A)) --
Msg Nr: 7468

At a special appearance on 23 November, FIDEL stated:

We do not hate men, we hate systems. The death of a man,
although he is our enemy, cannot cheer us. Always in the presence
of death we cease our belligerence and we bow with respect al-
though it is in respect to an enemy.

KENNEDY was strongly attacked for being bellicose. Ultra-
reactionaries are the only ones that can be called beneficiaries
of these events. Advantage is taken of the assassination to re-
lease in the USA anti-Soviet and anti-Cuban hysteria and they are

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 19 CN ILC ΤΙ 26 Nov 63 02122
✓
Cuban CUDY WS 17274 2X/O/CUD/T2433-63

0/27227-63
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Đoc ID: 6878874 Doc RefID SECRET SABRE
SECRET 2X/O/CUD/T2433-63

0/27227-63
staging a strange move and no one knows what sinister plot it
conceals. This campaign tries to place the USA in the worst
international positions, in the most reactionary international
positions, and that is a serious and grave threat to peace.
KENNEDY's death is a negative act for the interests of humanity.
The enemies of Cuba know that they will always find us firm.

Attention Cuban Embassy, furnish a copy to the consulates
under your jurisdiction.

((A)) This is a circular message sent also to Cuban diplomatic
missions in Algiers, Athens, Bamako, Beirut, Belgrade,
Berlin, Bern, Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Cairo, Colombo,
Conakry, Copenhagen, Djakarta, Geneva, Hanoi, Helsinki,
Karachi, London, Moscow, New Delhi, Oslo, Paris, Peking,
Pyongyang, Rabat, Rome, Sofia, Tel Aviv, The Hague, Tokyo,
Ulan Bator, Warsaw, Vatican City, and Vienna.

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
