Doc ID: 6878947 Doc Ref ID: A4268693

TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10065
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO [R]
TITLE :
3/0/W/T1596-63: REPRESENTATIVE OF ARBITER-ZEITUNG TO BE IN DALLAS [R]
DATE : 11/26/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ARBEITER-ZEITUNG [R]
AUSTRIA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878947 Doc Ref ID: A4268693

TOP SECRET DINAR
*********************************NO FOREIGN DISSEM*********************************
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in whole or in part
is prohibited except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

Austrian AUDE WS 626 3/0/W/T1596-63
IS 26 Nov 63 P
Dist: HCO

REPRESENTATIVE OF ARBEITER-ZEITUNG TO BE IN DALLAS

FR Vienna: Foreign Ministry 23 Nov 63
TO Washington: Embassy
Msg Nr: 55066

Please have the honorary consulate in Dallas put $2ØØ at the
disposal of editor FIELHAUER of the Arbeiter-Zeitung. Editor
FIELHAUER will report in Dallas some time today. Reimbursement
will be sent from Vienna on Monday.

MS -- CN -- TI --
Austrian 3/O/W/T1596-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
