Doc ID: 6879032 Doc-TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10350
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE : 3/0/TUD/T1306-63 REACTIONS IN PRAGUE TO KENNEDY MURDER [R]
DATE: 12/06/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879032 Doc Ref ID: A4269377

TOP SECRET DINAR

Turkish TUDN WS N-9016 3/0/TUD/T1306-63
IS 06 Dec 1321Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 280

REACTIONS IN PRAGUE TO KENNEDY MURDER

FR Prague: Embassy 26 Nov 63
TO Ankara: Foreign Ministry Routine
Msg Nr:

Msg 49.

1. The news of President KENNEDY's death caused great grief
mixed with anxiety among the local population. The morning and
evening editions of Friday's newspapers were (B val delivered)
and sold out in a short time. I heard that it was necessary that
the crowd which gathered in front of the American Embassy be
dispersed [1 gr U) civilian police. In spite of this more than
4,000 residents signed the special book. At the religious ceremony
arranged by the ambassador, the church filled and overflowed.

2. The government however, (1 gr Mied the smallest interest.
Flags were not half-masted on any official buildings. Although the
Foreign Minister went to the embassy and personally expressed their
[1 gr M], only the (B val Minister of Health), the Chief of Protocol
and Director General of the American Section attended the church
service. Furthermore, the government was content with charging
their American representative to participate in the ceremony in
Washington.

3. The press writes that this (1 gr U) was a crime directed
against world peace and co-operation and is expressing anxiety
that the new American administration will change its policies under
extreme rightist influence.

M3 36 CN TUDB 00126 TI 26 Nov 63 11522

Turkish 3/0/TUD/T1306-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Celeased pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
FK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
