Doc ID: 6878886 Doc Ref ID: A4268675

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10272
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : USAF
FROM: USA-751
TO: DIRNSA

TITLE :
DISCUSSION OF THE ASSASSINATION
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATIO REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

NNNNZCZCHAB939CIDA983
Doc ID: 6878886 Doc Ref ID: A4268675
00 YEKААН
DE YFIDDA 67 23/0850Z NOV
ZKZK 00 ORA DE
0 2308492
FM USA-751
TO DIRNS A
ZEM

SECRETKIMBO
BTWN 0730/0735Z, 23N063. RUSS MERCURY GAASS FACS REFLD
_TWO UNID-OPERATORS AT TWO UNID-STAS PROBAT-GERA-EAS T-
GERMANY DISCUSSING THE ASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

ONE OPERATOR STATED: "YESTERDAY I HEARD ABOUT IT. THERE
WERE 3 BULLETS. ONE HIT THE HEAD. HE WAS RIDING IN A
SCAR WITH HIS WIFE. HE WAS RIDING IN SOME PROVINCE (OF U.S.)
ON SOME KIND OF TOWN IN TEXAS. HE WAS (1GP) THERE. THEY
WERE DEPENDING ON HIM. HE WAS SUPPOSED TO APPEAR IN A

CERTAIN TOWN. THERE WERE SUPPOSED TO BE ELECTIONS NEXT YEAR.
THEY HAVE MANY PARTIES THERE, I GUESS. WE'LL SEE WHAT
IS WRITTEN IN THE PAPERS."
UCOMMENTS: ACTY REPRESENTS OPERATOR CHATTER AND DOES NOT
INDICATE ANY CHANGE IN POSTURE OF RELATIONS.

TECH INFO:
1. RZBCØØ 501
2. 59.990MCS/M 010 DEG ABLE
3. UNSUB (PROB SAM RELATED NET AT GERA)
4. U/I-1
5. T/U/1-2
1550

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
