Doc ID: 6878864 Doc Ref ID: A4268725
---------
AGENCY: NSA
SECRET MORAY
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10096
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CUD/T2456-63: CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION [R]
DATE: 11/29/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO [R]
CUBA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
Doc ID: 6878864 Doc Ref ID: A4268725 SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CUD/T2456-63
IS 29 Nov 2223 Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300
SECRET 0/27282-63
CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION AND CUBAN
ECONOMY

FR Havana: Foreign Ministry 28 Nov 63
TO Accra: Cuban Embassy((A))
Msg Nr: 7555

FIDEL stated, "Events are demonstrating the sinister plot
behind the assassination of KENNEDY. Contradictions show that
OSWALD was made the culprit by the police or was prepared to
commit the act with promise of escape, and was assigned activities
so as to have responsibility fall on or be insinuated against
those whom the perpetrators wished. It is clear that United
States reactionaries tried to make Cuba and the world the victims
of their criminal designs, even at the price of assasinating
their own president. They sent OSWALD to Mexico to request
a transit visa to Cuba for later travel to the USSR. Imagine
the president's assasin just returning from the USSR and

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECRET PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE(s)
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 19 CN ILC ΤΙ 29 Nov 63 08102
Cuban CUDY WS 17312 2X/O/CUD/T2456-63

0/27282-63
PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
Doc ID: 6878864 Doc Ref ID: A4 SECRET SABRE
2X/O/CUD/T2456-63

SECRET 0/27282-63
passing through Cuba. The visa to the USSR he could have
requested from the nearest European country and not have to come
to Cuba to later go to the USSR, which is much farther."

He also said, "By 1970 we will be in condition to surpass
10 million tons of sugar and to export it. The economy begins
to improve solidly. We have sugar sold at close to 10 centavos
for 1965 and 1966. There shortly will be a notable increase in
meats and other articles. At the year's end, nougats, wine
and grapes will reappear as the result of the development of
foreign trade.

SECRET PAGE 2 of 3 PAGE(s)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 3 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
