Doc ID: 6879073
TOUMBRA
AGENCY: NSA
DA4269443
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10172
DATE: 01/13/98
PAGE: 1
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO: HCO
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
TITLE :
3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
SERAFIN
DATE: 11/28/62
PAGES : 2
[R]
SUBJECTS:
GERONIMO/ESTEVEZ CUBAN EXILE IN PUERTO RICO & CUBAN DEMO ORG
THE PLAN FOR EXECUTION OF VECIANA & ESTEVEZ
ANTONIO/VECIANA, PUERTO RICAN SPOKESMAN FOR ALPHA 66
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE
ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91
TOP SEC
UMBRA

Doc ID: 6879073
Doc Ref ID: A4269443
TOP SECRET DINAR
US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY
TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION
Cuban
CUIB-1
FR
[U]
TO
(Puerto Rico): (SERAFIN]
Msg Nr: [M]
WS 36
3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
IS 29 Nov 62 P
2
28 Nov 62

[XM) cautiousness and equanimity which you possess.
finery plan (1 wd G)((A)) be carried out after completing the
recruiting task and when the conditions exist.
:
The
MS 84
ΤΙ 28 Nov 62 12122Z
FR
TO
CN CUIS JØØØ1
3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES
US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
TOP SECRET DINA
FUREAU SOURCE
८
INDEXED
64-330-2107
NOT RECORDED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE
ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879073
Doc. Ref ID: A4269443
SECRET DINAR
Cuban
3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
The plan for the execution of VECIANA ((B)) and ESTEVEZ((c))
is less important than the other. What information (do you have
about) plan PO ALPHA?
Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of
action against VECIANA.
Listen tomorrow to the transmissions about the concrete
objectives.. End of message.
✓ MIKE
18 November (XG)
((A)) C percent can.
((3)) ANTONIOECIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman for ALPHA 66.
((C)) Probably GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in Puerto Rico and
a member of the coordinating committee of Cuban democratic
organizations in exile.
TIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
BUREAU SOURCE
८
-2-
INDEXED
TOP SECRET D
164-330-210-
NOT RECORDED
MAR 20 1963
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE
ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
