JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
Doc ID: 6879049 Doc Ref ID: A4269397 DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10364

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO :

TITLE :
CUBAN REACTION TO DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE : 12/04/63
PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET DINAR 4 Dec 63

1. CUBAN REACTION TO DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

On 27 November Brazilian Ambassador Eustian Pinto in

Havana reported the following: (ELD 2027-63
CIN 1V75-63)
"Soon after the death of [President]

Kennedy several authorities and persons associated

with the Cuban Government openly expressed to us their

concern relative to the consequences in regard to

Cuba and were unanimous in believing that any other

President would be "even worse."

"Another concern of the Cubans was expounded

in the unexpected speech by Fidel Castro on Sat-

urday when he accused the news agencies of trying

to connect the Soviet Union and Cuba to the crime

and accepted that the reactionaries of the United

States are trying to create 'a state of anti-Soviet

and anti-Cuban hysteria.'

"Further, yesterday the Foreign Ministry in

an official communique confirmed that the indicated

assassin tried to obtain a visa to Cuba without

success and repeated that reactionary sectors tried.

-1-
TOP SECRET DINAR

in that way, to involve beforehand Cuba and the
Soviet Union in the events and are trying now to
cover up the masterminds and real motives for the
crime.

"There was no official announcement here of
sorrow for the death of the President of the United
States."

Note: On 23 November the Chilean Ambassador in Havana had
reported the following:

"The reaction in Havana to the assassination
of President Kennedy has been calm but cautious.
Only isolated Communist groups have shown any re-
joicing. The radio and newsreels are reporting
objectively and in a correct manner, without show-
ing regret ----- [words missing] statement by the
government. The newspapers are printing today the
statements of the Cuban Ambassador to the United
Nations."

*On 23 November Cuban UN delegate Lechuga stated in New York that
Cuba had received the news of the tragic death of President Kennedy
with deep sorrow; that all civilized men always grieved about such
events; and that this was the feeling of the people and Government of
Cuba.*

-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR

TOP SECRET DINAR 4 Dec 63

"----- [word missing] circles were seriously
concerned over the repercussions which the assas-
sination of the President of the United States may
have."

-3-
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
