Doc ID: 6879046
Doc Ref ID SECRET SPOKE
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10375
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO :
TITLE :
2/0/RUJ/R04-64 NEWS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION PASSED ON SOV [R]
DATE: 00/00/64
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R]
ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6, X7,X8
SECRET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---
Doc ID: 6879046
Doc Ref ID: A4269430
ACC #453592

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/RUJ/RØ4-64

GENERAL

1. Members of Unidentified Soviet Unit Receive New Regulations

A conversation of 14 November 1963 1/ held on an unidentified R-4 radio
relay training net (believed to be internal), Group of Soviet Forces Germany
(GSFG), between two unidentified speakers disclosed the following concerning
the reception of new regulations:

Speakers (A) and (B) were engaged in a long conversation concerning
communications. At the completion of this routine communications chatter,
Speaker (A) remarked that they would not be training until one o'clock (a.m.
or p.m. not indicated) the next day. He then told Speaker (B) that he had been
spending some time reading the new regulations [NOVYJ USTAV]. Speaker (B)
replied that he had seem them, the 1963 ones. He added that he wanted to read
them through but hadn't (yet) been able to do so. The remainder of the conversation,
parts of which were garbled, dealt with training courses, type not disclosed.

Comment: The new regulations referred to are probably the 1963 edition of
a Soviet publication which can best be described as a basic field manual for the
soldier. This manual contains instructions pertaining to the Soviet soldier's
conduct, manual of arms, squad, platoon, company and battalion tactics, etc., as
found in separate U.S. manuals.

✓
2. News of President Kennedy's Assassination Passed on Soviet Multi-Channel
Facilities

A conversation of 22 November 1963 2/ held between two unidentified speakers
revealed that the news of President Kennedy's assassination was being passed on
the Moscow to Hq GSFG, R-4ØØ radio relay line.

Speaker (A) asked if Speaker (B) had heard about Kennedy. Speaker (B)
replied that they hadn't heard anything on the [commercial) radio yet and were
waiting for the latest news. Speaker (A) stated that in his opinion Kennedy
was already dead, having received a fatal bullet wound. Without further comment,
the speakers began talking about their communications.

3. Soviet TAF, East Germany, Regiment Directed to Begin Quarterly Review of
Permanent Party

On 30 November 1963 3/ Tactical Air Force (TAF) East Germany, Fighter-
Regiment TølØØA at Lonnewitz was reminded to begin the quarterly review of
permanent party, (OSNOVOJ SOSTAV) in accordance with the deadlines. The
message was sent by the 499 at Fighter-division TØlØØ at Merseburg to his counter-
part at TølØØA and bore the serial number 82/99. In the usual message format,
99 would be the department number, but no record of such a department could be found
in available files.

1/. UHF facilities; RF-5183, CB-63/959-R
2/. UHF facilities; RF-5292, CB-63/1007-R.
3/. VHF facilities; BXP-49538, 4954

3
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
-SECRET KIMBO
