DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
Doc ID: 6878895
TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10075
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/FRD/T1259-63: FRENCH LEGATION BUDAPEST REPORTS REACTION TO KENNED [R]
DATE : 12/14/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
FRANCE, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
HUNGARY, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878895
Doc Ref TOP SECRET DINAR
French FRDBT WS 10263 3/O/FRD/T1259-63
IS-14 Dec 20372 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

FRENCH LEGATION BUDAPEST REPORTS REACTION TO KENNEDY'S
ASSASSINATION

FR Budapest: FRANCFORT 25 Nov 63
TO Paris: The Department Priority
Msg Nr: 425

Pursuant to my preceding telegram((A)).

The President's death was given official notice only by the
lowering of a black flag to half-staff at the government head-
quarters and by the visit of a deputy minister of Foreign Affairs
and an assistant deputy trade minister to my American colleague.
The people remain dismayed, but their anxiety of the first few
hours seems to have died. The press, on the other hand, did
not deviate from its harsh custom of anti-American manifestation
and sought, with a touch of irritability, to reject any
sugggestion of Communist implication in the attempt.

((A)) Not available.

MS 47 CN ILC TI --
French 3/O/FRD/T1259-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
