Doc ID: 6879068 Doc Ref ID: A4269464 Date:10/16/95
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10200

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA [R]
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCF [R]

TITLE :
3/0/CUD/T167-67 CUBAN PRESS AGENCY REQUESTS INFO ON KENNEDY [R]

DATE : 02/24/67
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
CUBAN MSG ASKING ABOUT THE DEATH OF DAVID W. FERRIE [R]
JFK CONSPIRACY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: [R]
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED [R]

---

Doc ID: 6870068 Doc Ref ID: A4269464

TOP ECRET TRINE

Cuban CUVY WS 3289 3/0/CUD/T167-67
IS 24 Feb 19362 P
Dist: HCF

CUBAN PRESS AGENCY REQUESTS INFORMATION ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
FIGURE

FR Havana: MARIO MADRAZO, Latin 22 Feb 67
American Editorial Staff Urgent
TO New York: PORTELA, Prensa Latina
Msg Nr: 1

[OUT-OF-SERVICE MESSAGE]

Comrade PORTELA,

Please send us information on the death of DAVID W
FERRIE, cited as an important figure in District Attorney
JIM GARRISON's investigation of the KENNEDY assassination.

We want to know, if possible, what factors linked
FERRIE to the case, as well as the details of his death. Was
it suicide or murder?

0
BUREAU SOURCE- Cuha

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND
THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

MS CN TI
INDEXED
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET TRINE

---

Dốc ID: 6879068 Doef ID: A4269464
LINDENT RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
6 BLEECKER STREET NEW YORK CITY 10012 PHONE: AJ WEBERMAN (212) 477-6243

FOI/PA
J. Edgar Hoover Building
Washington, D.C. 20535

1. Under the provisions of the FOIA I would like to request all files,
reports and related reports in which his name comes up on

DAVID WILLIAM FERRIE

Mr. Ferrie was arrested in New Orleans on 2/16/62 and was assigned 23107062.
His name was mentioned repeatedly in regard to the Garrison investigation
of the JFK murder/conspiracy which took place in New Orleans. I have enclosed
a copy of a document your office sent me under FOIA which states that Ferrie
is dead.

2. Enclosed please find letter dated 14 Oct 77 from James M. Powers. I
would like to obtain all the additional material. I will pick this
material up in person when I visit the FBI FOI/PA Reading room on
November 9, 1977 if that is alright.

signed

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
