Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID TOP SECRET
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10264
DATE: 01/26/98
PAGE: 1

RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO :
TITLE :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ACTIONS TAKEN BY NSA TO LOCATE JFK ASSASSINATION INFORMATION
DATE: 06/15/78
PAGES: 32
SUBJECTS:
DIPLOMATIC MESSAGES [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: CABLES (USE FOR CABLES, TELEGRAMS, WIRES, AIRGRAMS)
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

DocID: 6878948-
TOP SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 15 June 1978
SUBJECT: Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Related
to the Assassination of President Kennedy
A. Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NSA has
performed a number of separate in-depth reviews of materials in
its files in an attempt to isolate data that might be relevant
to the assassination of President Kennedy. Nothing of significance
has been determined as a result of those reviews.
1. November-December 1963 Immediately after the
assassination, NSAinitiated a large-scale manual and machine
review of available SIGINT, including all U.S./Cuba traffic (NSA
intercepted messages at an average of 1,000 per day at that time).
A computer search was initiated using Oswald's name as the minimum
for research criteria. Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/New
Orleans and Cuba/Dallas was manually reviewed (an analyst involved
recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,
along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet traffic). Sometime
during the search, items from the Oswald address book provided by
the FBI were added to the search criteria.
2. 1964 Warren Commission The Commission, in the
person of Allan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits for any
secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the
documents. It also appears that NSA searched records for information
on the basis of other Warren Commission requests made informally
by Allen Dulles.
3. November 1975 Senate Select Committee to Study
Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC):
In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,
NSA reviewed its Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military.
The search was also for material involving Marina Oswald, Jack Ruby
or Earl Ruby (a Harvest run was made). Mexican traffic was also
reviewed, looking for information concerning Oswald's visit to
Mexico.
4. June 1976 Pursuant to FOIA requests asking for
material relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

3. Doc ID: 6878948
TOP SECRET
of President John F. Kennedy, NSA again searched the files.
Strongbox searches were made on the following:
Lee Harvey Oswald 1966 - 1976
Assassination of
President Kennedy 1966 - 1976
Earl Ruby 1966 - 1977
Cobo Cleaners 1966 - 1977
5. December 1976 Senate Select Committee on Intelli-
gence (SSCI) Requested all the material we had available on the
Cuban agent problem. It consisted of 485 reports for the period
1961 1965. All of these reports were received by Committee
Staff Members.
6. March 1978 House Select Committee on Assassinations
Requested all data on Cuban intelligence network and other materials
relating to the Assassination. All Cuban agent material (1961
1964)
was reviewed, as was material that had been previously compiled to
respond to the SSCI and SSC requests.
B. As a result of the reviews described above, the following
materials which may have some relevance to the assassination were
located (referenced material inclosed at numbered tabs):
1. Four Cuban diplomatic messages which contained
official Cuban comments regarding press items that discussed Oswald's
activity in late September 1963 to obtain a visa to travel to
Moscow. There were also comments on the assassination itself.
The messages are dated in the last week of November 1963.
2. Three Cuban military reports which show that Cuban
military forces did go on alert immediately after the assassination.
3. One 1962 Cuban Intelligence message concerning the
assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto
Rico) SERAFIN.
4. One 1966 Cuban Diplomatic message concerning a Spanish
diplomat in Cuba. It referenced a 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate
an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against Raul Castro Ruz, possibly
linking it to the CIA.
5. Information in an FBI document relating to a French
Intelligence agent was supplied by NSA. Because this document
was to be turned over to the HASC, there may be some relation
to the assassination.
6. One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim
Garrison's investigation of both the Kennedy Assassination and
David W. Ferrie.
2
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
TOP SECRET
C. Based on these extensive reviews and the paucity of
material derived, it is possible to state that: "A thorough
review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or
suggesting Cuban involvement in the assassination of President
Kennedy."

Incl:
a/s
Engeriet. Yeater
EUGENE F. YEATES
Chief D1

TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CILANNELS ONLY
3
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948、
D.TOP SECRET
It seems to me that this summary should now be used as the basis for advising
Mr. Blakey that we have reviewed all our holdings and have found nothing
directly (or even indirectly) relevant to his investigation.

Incl:
a/s
Sene
EUGENE F. YEATES

TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
2
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doe ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
:
TOP SECRET DINAR
Cuban CUDY WS 17277 3/0/CUD/T2394-63-
IS 26 Nov 20152 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300
CUBAN STATEMENT ON VISA FOR OSWALD
FR Havana: RAUL ROA 25 Now 63
TO New York: Cubari Mission to the UN
Msg. Nr: 7469
I am reproducing below the note given to the press by the
Ministry:
With relation to the information published today in the
newspaper Excelsion in Mexico City, affirming that LEE HARVEY
OSWALD had requested a transit visa for travel to the Soviet
Union at the Cuban Consulate ir. Mexico in September, the Cuban
Government requested information from the officials of our
Consulate in that city confirming that it is certain that
Mr. LEE HARVEY OSWALD requested the transit visa for travel to
the Soviet Union on 27 September in the said Consulate..
On being informed by the consular officials that their
office could not grant such a visa without the authorization,
of the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations, which likewise
would not grant it if it was not previously authorized by the
country of destination, Mr. OSWALD left the Consulate visibly
disgusted.
The said visa was never granted.
This detail in connection with the other circumstance
that surround the facts, confirm our suspicion that the
assassination of KENNEDY was a provocation against world peace,
perfectly and thoroughly planned by the most reactionary sectors
of the United States:
Cuban 3/0/CUD/T1384-63
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Dốc ID: 6878948
Dọc RetID A426865
Cuban
TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/CUD/T1384-63
It is evident that these sectors planned beforehand to
involve Cuba and the Soviet Union in these deeds.
The inconceivable and inexplicable impunity with which an
individual of known penal antecedents assassinated OSWALD, the
principal accused of the assassination of President KENNEDY, in
the presence of the police themselves and in the (56) of a
prison, demonstrates in a scandalous and indisputable manner
that the powerful reactionary political forces within the "
United States are making use of all their resources and influences
in order to conceal those who master-minded KENNEDY's assassination,
and the true motives for it.
World public opinion demands the enlightening of the deeds.
It is absurd that the political authorities and the prosecuting.
attorney of Dallas have declared that the case is closed when
hardly 48 hours have passed since a deed of so great a result as
the assassination of the President of the United States.
Regards.
MS CN TI
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Dọc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
SECRET SABRE
2X/Q/CUD/T2456-65
IS 29 Nov 22:32 Ρ
Dist: CE
ST 300
SECRET
0/27282-63
CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION AND CUBAN
ECONOMY
FR. Havana: Foreign Ministry 28 Nov 63
TO Accra: Cuban Embassy((A))
Msg Nr: 7555
FIDEL stated, "Events are demonstrating the sinister plot
behind the assassination of KENNEDY, Contradictions show that
OSWALD was made the culprit by the police or was prepared to
commit the act with promise of escape, and was assigned activities
so as to have responsibility fall on or be insinuated against
those whom the perpetrators wished. It is clear that United
States reactionaries tried to make Cuba and the world the victims
of their criminal designs, even at the price of assasinating
their own president. They sent OSWALD to Mexico to request
a transit visa to Cuba for later travel to the USSR. Imagine
the president's assasin just returning from the USSR and
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECIASSIFICATION
PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE(0)
MS 19
CN ILC TΙ 29 Nov 63 08102
:
:
Cuban
CUDY WS 17312
2X/O/CUD/T2456-63
0/27282-63
PAGE 1 of 3 PAGE()
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doo Ref ID: A4268657
00
SECRET SABRE
SEGRET
2X/O/CUD/T2456-63
0,27232-63
:
passing through Cuba. The visa to the USSR he could have
requested from the nearest European country and not have to come
to Cuba to later go to the USCR, which is much farther."
He also said, "By 1970 we will be in condition to surpass
10 million tons of sugar and to export it. The economy begins
to improve solidly. We have sugar sold at close to 10 centavos.
for 1965 and 1966. There shortly will be a notable increase in
meats and other articles. At the year's end, nougats, wine
and grapes will reappear as the result of the development of
foreign trade.
PAGE 2 of 3
SECRET
PAGE(S)
GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOMIGRADING AND, DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE 2 of 3 PAGE(3)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

ID: 687894
Doc Ref ID A4268657
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/CUD/T2456-63
SECRET
0/27282-63
((A)) This is a circular message sent also to Cubar Diplomatic
Missions in Algiers, Athens, Bamako, Beirut, Belgrade,
Berlin, Bern, Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Cairo,
Colombo, Conakry, Copenhagen, Djakarta, Hanoi, Helsinki,
Karachi, Lisbon, London, Moscow, New Delhi, Oslo, Paris,
Peking, Prague, Pyongyang, Rabat, Rome, Santiago, Sofia,
Tel Aviv, The Hague, Tokyo, Ulan Bator, Vatican City, and
Vienna.
SECRET
PAGE 3 of 3 PAGE(8)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE ef 3 PAGE(0)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
* SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/CUD/T2545-63
IS 14 Dec 63
P
Dist: HCO
ST
300
SECRET
0/27780-63
GHANAIAN PRESS EMPHASIZING CUBAN COMMENTARIES ON DEATH OF PRESIDENTIAL
ASSASSIN
FR Accra: ENTRALGO: 30 Nov 63
TO Havana Foreign Ministry
Msg Nr: GH-214
The Ghanaian press emphasized in the headlines of the first..
page on 29 November, the commentaries of the Prime Minister of
Cuba concerning the death of OSWALD.
PAGE 1 of PAGE(1)
SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
MSUKF-120
Cuban
CUDY
CN
ILC
WS
17344
F
TI
2X/O/CUD/T2545-63
0/27780-63
PAGE 1 of PAGE()
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
SECRET SABRE
2X/0/CUD/T2440-63
IS 28 Nov 1949€ Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300
SECRET
0/2/247-63
MINREX, HAVANA VERIFIES OSWALD'S REQUEST FOR TRANSIT VISA FOR RUSSLA
FR Havana: MINREX 26 Nov 63
TO Circular (Warsaw: Cuban Embassy!((A))
Msg Nr: 7482
MINREX reported yesterday that the information in the newspaper
Excelcior of Mexico City concerning LEE OSWALD's request for a transit
visa to go to the USSR, which was requested from the Cuban Consulate
in Merida, is true. This visa was requested 27 September from said
consulate, which stated that it could not grant the visa without
permission of MINREX, and unless permission had been granted pre-
viously by the country of destination. OSWALD gave up annpying the
consulate, and the visa was never granted.
:
This detail, and others, confirm the suspicion that the KENNEDY
assassination was a provocation against world peace by the most re
actionary sectors. It is evident that these sectors planned
GROUP 1
SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE of PAGE()
5
MS 19
CN ILG TΙ 27 Nov 63 13072
Cuban
CUDY WS 17303
2X/O/CUD/T2440-63
0/27247-63
PAGE 1 of PAGE(S)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
SECRET SABRE
2X/0/CUD/T2440-63
SECRET
0/27247-63
beforehand to involve Cuba and the USSR in the acts. The inconceive
able impunity of a person who, with a known police record could
murder OSWALD in the presence of the police in a prison basement,
demonstrates the scandalous means which reactionary forces are
using in the United States to cover up the perpetrators and the...
motives for KENNEDY's assassination. World-wide public opinion
demands. a clarification of the facts. It is aurd that the Dallas
District Attorney is closing the case of the death of the President
scarcely 48 hours after the deed.
((A)) Same text sent to Cuban Embassies in Conakry, Prague, Accra,
Cairo and Algiers, Similar text sent to Cuban Embassy
Mexico City.
PAGE of
SECRET
2 PAGE(S)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOTTICHANICS AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(2)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

-Đọc HD 6878948
Doe Ref ID A426865
SECRET KIMBO
آد
۱۳
50
2/0/CUJ/R58-63
26 Νον 63 20192
DIST: O/WA
ST 250
ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERMINATED
The alert in Oriente Province (see 2/0/CUN/R196-63) is be-
lieved to be terainated. The alert, apparently propted by
Prešldant KENNEDY's death on 22 November, was possibly pre-
scheduled to terminate on 25 November. There have been two orders
which suggest that the alert was destined to be concluded on
25 November; they are:
1) Access to the Coastal Observation Post at Punta
Maisi (20-15N 74-05W) was restricted until 25 November because
of the alert (see 2/QS/CUN/R667-63); anil
2) Subordinates of Banes, Readquarters Eastern Naval
District, were to receive further orders on the 25th, presumably
conceming their alert status (2/0/CUN/R196-53); no such orders
have been noted in comamications.
There have been no further references in intercepted communi-
cations to the alert since 02222 on 23 November (2/QS/CUR/R667-63).
It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation
Post at Punta Kaisi extends to other Observation Posts in Oriente
Province such as reported on 23 November when First Army Coastal
Observation Posts were placed in an alert status
(2/21/CITA/P133-63), and that the restriction was to be lifted on
25 November by all those posts.
Further Indication that the alert has terminated is the fact
that the Cuban Navy was engaged in an island-wide communications
exercise on 25 Noveaber. It is considered unlikely that such an
exercise wuld be conducted under alert conditions.
4
There have been no further references to the alert status
of the (D percent Santiago de Cuba) units which was first ob-
served on 23 November (2/31/CA/R05-63). All CRAF and Soviet
Forces Cuba comunications appear to be neraal during this
period, 22-26 November 1963.
4
1ST: OJA PLUS CC 200 PAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc 110-6878948,
Doc Ref 1P) A426865
SECRET KIMBO
ALERCE IN FASTERN NAVAL DI STRICT RETANED, 23
2/0/CI/195-63
25 Μου 6318152
DIST: O/HA 0/
ST 250
NOVEMBE
NIEDY, the Eastern
As a result of the death of President
Raval District of da se placed or sa alert et 2044
22 November by Bins headquar quarters for that district. ((4))
:
At 22372 on 23 lovesber, the alert was relered a cartain
degree by Bades, instructions were passed, to Santiago de Caba,
a, subordinate, to give i to give leave to 23. percent of thaix paracinel
for the 23rd za and od 24th and that far
07:25 מפהber 1960.
Farther orders wuld be forthcoming
4
that the alert 10 screwat roluxal and
note that
instructics would be issued
alccation
((A))(2/ZZI/1/2
0
M
55
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.
JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID' 6878948-
Doc Ref ID A4268657
Orien
ezntcitas
grad Stri iring and li
to
:
43
210/CUR03/265-53
job was
These coursea
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
TOP SECRET DINAR
US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY
TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION
ة
Cuban
FR [U]
TO [Puerto Rico):7 [SERAFIN)
Msg Nr: [M]
CUIB-1 WS 36 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
IS 29 Nov 62 P
28 Nov 62
2
[XM] cautiousness and equanimity which you possess. The
finery plan (1 wa G) ((A)) be carried out after completing the
recruiting task and when the conditions exist.
FR - CN CUIS JØØØ1
TO - 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
MS 84
ΤΙ 28 Nov 62 12122
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES
US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
2
1
10/45-1
TOP SECRET DINA
FUREAU SOURCE G
INDEXED
164-333-27
MAR 26133
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
SECRET DINAR
Cuban : 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
The plan for the execution ofLVECIANA((B)) and ESTEVEZ((C))
is less important than the other. What information (co you have
about) plan PO ALPHA?
Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of
action against VECIANA.
Listen tomorrow to the transmissions about the concrete
objectives. End of message.
✓ MIKE 18 November (XG)
((A)) C percent can.
((3)) ANTONIOECIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman for ALPHA 66.
((C)) Probably GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in Puerto Rico and
a member of the coordinating committee of Cuban democratic
organizations in exile.
TIONAL SECURITY AGENCY -2-
JREAU SOURCE ج INDEXED
TOP SECRET DINAR
164-330-210-1
NOT RECORDED
MAR 26 1363
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
OT
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 30 December 1976
SUBJECT: SSCI Request for Document re Antonio Veciana
In response to the inclosed 20 December request from
the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, on this date
I showed the NSA product on Antonio Veciana, 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
dated 29 November 1962, to SSCI staffers Tom Moore and Howard
Liebengood. They were quite interested in this message and
a reference to "Serafin." They indicated that the Committee
would request a review of all Cuban material for the period
1961-1965.
3 Incls:
1. SSCI ltr dtd 20 Dec 76
Product
2.
3.
Backup
JOHN C. WOBENSMITH
Legislative Affairs
LAO
Con by D
Caemmpt from (PC/COOM 223)
2
Declassify Upon em by the Originator
SINSITTY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
Sub-

ID:
* Doc ID: 6878948
:.
SECRET LARUM
Doc Ref ID: A4268657、
レ
2X/O/CUD/T1663-66
IS 03 Jun 19552 P
Dist: HCF
SECRET 0/15748-66
SPANISH COUNSELOR IN HAVANA DECLARED PERSONA NON GRATA
FR Havana: ROA 28 May 66
TO Madrid: CALZADILLA, Cuban Urgent
Embassy
Msg Nr: 2301 213
I am transcribing below, for your information and for
appropriate purposes, the text of the note delivered this morning,
Saturday, to the Spainish Embassy in Cuba.
"Havana, 28 May 1966
"Chargé d'Affaires:
"I have the honor of addressing you on a matter which the
Government of Cuba considers of the utmost importance and gravity,
1
GROUP 1 PAGE of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
SECRET
BUREAU SOURCE-6-Culia
MS UKC-108 CN ILC TI
Cuban CUDY WS 42637
164-330-210-4602
JUL 14 1966
NOT RECORDED
INDEXED PAGE 1 of 12 PAGE(S)
SECRET LARUM.
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID A4268657
LAOM
:
SECRET
2X/O/CUD/T1663-66
0/15748-66
since it deals with crimes that have been committed and activities
that have been carried out against the integrity and stability
of the state by Mr. JAIME CALDEVILLA Y CARCIA VILLAR, Press
Counselor of the Spanish Embassy, who intolerably abused the
diplomatic immunity and privileges granted him and used them
for purposes, like those cited, that are very different from the
functions assigned to him.
"With the purpose of documenting what has already been
indicated, I take the liberty of informing you below in detail, of
the charges which have been brought against Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,
proved in an authentic and irrefutable manner, and which compel
us to formally and expressly request his immediate departure from
the country persona non grata.
"The main activites of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA are
directed toward the search, by illicit means, for information of a
PAGE 2 of 12 PAGE(s)
GROUP 1
SEGRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
2
PAGE of 12 PAGE(S)
SECRET LARUM
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

OSECRET LABI"I
Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657'
2X/0/CUD/T1663-66
SECRET 0/15748-66
military, economic and political nature, the fulfillment of tasks
of ideological diversionism and the recruitment of agents and
counterrevolutionaries for the Central Intelligence Agency, tasks
in which he has availed himself of the very close collaboration of
his secretary, Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ((A)).
"Since February 1959, Counselor CALDEVILLA has undertaken the
job of recruiting members of the then Rebel Army, among them the
traitor ALDO VERA ((A)), MARIO MARRERO((A)), and AGUSTIN PARRADA((A))。
The latter, once his activities were discovered, found it propitious
to flee the country to avoid prosecution.
"Along this same line, he also used the aforementioned Miss
CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, instructing her to infiltrate student
organizations for the purpose of creating diversionism in the
ideological order, and she established, for this purpose, intimate
relations with Mr. PEDRO LUIS BOITELL((A)), ex-President of the
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE 3 of 12 PAGE(s)
SECRET
PAGE 3 of 12 PAGE(s)
SECRET LARUM
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET LARU)
Doc ID: 6878948
Doc Ref ID: A4268657
SECRET
2X/O/CUD/T1663-66
0/15748-66
University of Havana School of Engineering. When the latter was
arrested and sentenced to imprisonment on the Isle of Pines,
Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ went there and carried out military and political
espionage activities. The data and information that she obtained
on that occasion were transmitted to Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,
and included microfilms.
"In February 1960 Counselor CALDEVILLA conceived a plan for
an attempt against the life of the then First Deputy Chairman of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Mr. ANASTAS MIΚΟΥΑΝ,.
a guest in Cuba, for which purpose he delivered arms to a group
of counterrevolutionarly elements. It was not executed, according
to what Counselor CALDEVILLA himself claims, because of the
cowardice of the assassins. He also sought refuge and protection in
the home of his collaborator JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ((A)), for Mr. ISRAEL
ZAMORA PEREZ ((A)), a fugitive from Cuban authorities for plotting
an attempt against the life of the Vice Prime Minister and Minister
of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, Commander RAUL CASTRO RUZ,
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOUNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PAGE 4 of 12 PAGE(S)
PAGE 4 of 12 PAGE(s)
SECRET LARUM
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET LARUM
Doc ID: 