Doc ID: 6879045
19
-
Doc RTOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10374
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/ECD/T516-63 ECUADOR WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE NOBEL PRIZE FOR PRESIDEN [R]
DATE: 12/03/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879045
Doc Ref ID: A4269427

TOP SECRET DINAR-

Ecuadoran
ECDC
WS 17351
3/0/ECD/T516-63
IS 03 Dec 1923Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

ECUADOR WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE NOBEL PRIZE FOR PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Quito: Foreign Ministry
TO Stockholm: Ecuadoran Embassy
Msg Nr: 6
29 Nov 63
--

The Ecuadoran Military Junta would like to sponsor the
granting of the Nobel prize to the deceased President KENNEDY
in consideration of his great work for world peace.

Please inform me immediately of the qualifications and
conditions that are required for such granting, and sound out
discreetly the form in which to put this strong desire of the
Ecuadoran Government.

In case there is the possibility that a specific démarche
would succeed, let me know the proper way in which to make it
official.

MS 974
CN ILC
TI --
✓
Ecuadoran
3/0/ECD/T516-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
