Dốc ID: 6879097
Doc GLORET SPOKE
DATE: 09/11/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10170
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: O/H [R]
TITLE :
2/0/CUN/R196-63 ALERT IN EASTERN NAVAL DISTRICT RELAXED 23 NOV [R]
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
EASTERN NAVAL DISTRICT OF CUBA PLACED ON ALERT DUE TO ASSASS [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 2 Sep 01
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET SPOKE

Doc:ID: 6879097,
Did Ref D: A4277591

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/C1/2195-63
25 Nov 631815Z
DIST: O/WA
ST 250

ALERCE IN EASTERN NAVAL DISTRICT RETAINED, 23 NOVEMBER
As a result of the death of President KENNEDY, the Eastern
Naval District of Cuba was placed on alert at 2044Z
22 November by Bamsa, headquarters for that district,((A))

At 2237Z on 23 November, the alert was relaxed a certain
degree by Bamsa, instructions were passed to Santiago de Cuba,
a, subordinate, to give leave to 25 percent of their personnel
for the 23rd and 24th and that further orders would be forthcoming
on 25 November 1963.

The instructions to grant leave to personnel to a
25% indicates that the alert is somewhat relaxed and
the note that further instructions would be issued on
Tuesday, 25 November, indicates that a decision was
to be made regarding the Eastern Naval District.

((A)) (2/1/11/4754-63, 2/TS/CUN/R1955, pass. 2657-63))

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
