Doc ID: 6879041 Doc-RTOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10371
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCO
TITLE : 3/0/KOD/T1434-63 ROK PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO U.S. [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS : ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

Doc ID: 6879041 Doc Ref ID: A4269405

TOP SECRET DINAR-

Korean KODY WS 311-WNS-123 3/O/KOD/T1434-63
(South) IS 2 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO
ST 300

ROK PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO U.S.

FR Washington: Ambassador 25 Nov 63 Ø8152
TO Seoul: Foreign Minister: AAACCA --

President's visit to U.S.; communication number two.

1. The President's official party arrived safely as scheduled
at Dulles (International) Airport at 12:30 in the morning of
25 November.

2. At the airport they were received by a large number of
official members of the U.S. State Department such as Undersecretary
of State GEORGE BALL, Assistant Undersecretary of State ROGER HILSMAN
in charge of the Far East, Director of the office of Far East Affairs
MARSHALL GREEN and the Deputy Director of the office of East Asian
Affairs LEONARD BACON along with members of the Embassy and
approximately 150 fellow countrymen who were studying abroad.

3. The return date is not decided upon but it is certain that
they will leave as planned upon the completion of the formal
reception by each country's officials for President JOHNSON on
Tuesday, 26 November.

a. Routing indicator for ROK CIA.

MS -- CN ILC TI --
Korean 3/0/KOĎ/T1434-63
(South)

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
