Doc ID: 6878880
Doc Ref
SECRET SPOKE
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
------
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10051
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
2/0/CUK/T05-63: PLOT TO ASSASSINATE CASTRO REPORTED [R]
DATE: 01/16/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
CASTRO, FIDEL [R]
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
-CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFO FORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SEOBET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878880
Doc Ref ID: A4268678.
SECRET KIMBO

Cuban CURA WS 6511 2/0/CUR/T05-63
ST 250
IS 16 Jan 1551Z P

PLOT TO ASSASSINATE CASTRO REPORTED

FR Pinar del Rio: -- 15 Jan 63
TO San Cristobal: --
Msg Nr: --

The informer RUBEN MAQUERIA, known as MATEIBO, in a conversa-
tion with a group at Central José Marti, where he lives, said it
would be good to assassinate FIDEL on El Cocuyo Road. This was

MS 962L CN CURS 50601
TI 15 Jan 63 2125Z FR 1MF 2/0/CUR/T05-63
TO 1MFS

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY SECRET KIMBO
SECRET KIMBO

Cuban 2/0/CUR/T05-63
reported by JUAN TABOADA, of the same place, who had learned about
it when he saw MAQUERIA and was in the (1 wd G). This group must
be penetrated.

TERESA to ANDRES at 1623 hours. ELISEO REYES

-2-

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY SECRET KIMBO-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
