Doc ID: 6878921
DocRef ID: A4268748
TOP SECRET UMBRAATE:03/24/97
PAGE:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10113
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/MXD/T1738-63: MEXICAN PRESIDENT FAVORS MEXICO'S PARTICIPATION IN [R]
DATE: 12/27/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878921
Doc Ref ID: A4268748

TOP SECRET DINAR

Mexican MXDN WS 15600 3/0/MXD/T1738-63
IS 27 Dec 2105Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

MEXICAN PRESIDENT FAVORS MEXICO'S PARTICIPATION IN KENNEDY LIBRARY
PROJECT

FR Washington: Ambassador CARRILLO FLORES 17 Dec 63
TO Mexico City: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 167

I informed Mr. GOODWIN that our President is in favor of
Mexico's participation in the Kennedy Library project.

He tells me that Venezuela will contribute $100,000. Peru
has the amount of its contribution under study. Puerto Rico will
also contribute $100,000,

MS 974 CN ILC TI --

Mexican ✓
3/0/MXD/T1738-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
