Doc ID: 6878891
Doc Ref ID: A4268694
SECRET SPOKE
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10066
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA [R]
TO : HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/MXD/T255-63: MEXICAN EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES REQUESTED TO FLY [R]
DATE : 11/24/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET SPOKE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878891
Doc Ref ID: A4268694
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/MXD/T255-63
IS 24 Nov 17597Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET
0/27211-63

MEXICAN EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES REQUESTED TO FLY FLAG AT
HALF-MAST

FR Mexico City: Foreign Ministry 23 Nov 63
TO Rio de Janeiro ((A)): Mexican Embassy --
Msg Nr: 53084

Please fly the Mexican flag at half-mast for three days
beginning today, the 23rd, in compliance with a decree of the
President of the Republic which orders that mourning be observed
in homage to the memory of President KENNEDY.

((A)) This is a circular message, sent to Mexican embassies
and consulates.

SECRET
PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 19 CN ILC TI 24 Nov 63 0135Z
Mexican MXDY WS 2783 2X/O/MXD/T255-63

0/27211-63

PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
