Doc ID: 6879113 Doc Ref SECRET MORAY DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10377
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM: USM-701
TO: ROMEO/CHARLIE
TITLE :
REFERENCES TO OSWALD IN TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN WEST GERMANY AN [R]
DATE: 01/03/64
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1, X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879113- Doc Ref ID: A4269434
NNNN ZCZCNAB893P029 ASB 354

RR YEKAAH YEKADD YEKADL YEKADN YEKNDK YWQALA

DE YFNAAS 9gA 03/1551Z JAN
ZKZK RR ARA NRL DE
531400 Z
R
FM USM 781
TO ROMEO/CHARLIE
YFNAN ZC/DAD BERLIN
ZEN/NSAEUR DET FKFT
ACCSH 453592
G10-0603-3

RETSABRE

2X/R/QOF/T 01-64 RPT 2X/R/QOF/T 00-64,

SECRET R/04-64
REFERENCE TO OSWALD IN TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN WEST
GERMANY AND USSR.

FR: ((B PERCENT FRANKFURT MAIN )): MR. LEO ((A))
TO: MOSCOW ((B PERCENT SCHOEDEL)), ((A))
TELEPHONE NUMBER 974370
((AUDITOR'S TRANSLATION))

FR (XMG) WOULD YOU LIKE TO (XMG) FROM WHOM I FOR WHOM I
(XMC)

Doc ID: 6879113- Doc Ref ID: A4269434
((AUDITOR'S TRANSLATION))
FR (XMG) WOULD YOU LIKE TO (XMG) FROM WHOM I FOR WHOM I
(XMG)
* OH, YOU MEAN BECAUSE OF OSWALD?
MO
A: EXACTLY.
FR
MO. YES, MR. LEO, I HAVE THE FOLLOWING TO TELL YOU ABOUT
THAT. I HAD TH IDEA IMMEDIATELY WHEN I HEARD THA HE
SHAD (XMG) IN MINSK.

FR YES, YES.
MO. YOU KNOW THAT ONE WITHOUT P34.80089, (XMG)
FR: (XMG) THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY THOUGHT HERE.
MO: I BELIEVE A CORRESPONDING APPLICATION NOW LIES...
FR 14 DAY (XMG) STILL NO ANS WER.
MO (XMG) AT THE FOREIGN MINISTRY. THEY TOLD ME THAT IT STILL
WAS NOT DECIDED (XMG) IT IS (XMG) PERSONALLY I HAVE NO
MORE GREAT HOPE AFTER THE THINGS (XMG) ARE. THEY HAVE BEEN
OOF COURSE, ALSO THE DOCUMENTS....
NR YES.
MO: DELIVERED (XMG). ST LL PLACES GREAT VALUE HERE ON THE
FACT THAT SOMEONE INMINSK THERE (XMG)
FR: (XMG) TO WHET IS TO BE DONE.
MO: YES, THAT WOULD DEPEND ON WHAT COMES OF IT, THRUE? BUT...
NR YES.
MMMC AS A MATTER OF DOINCIDIET WOULD SAVFS CLADIV

MO DYOS791 THAT WOULD DEPENDROND WHAT 4COMES OF IT, THRUE? BUT...
NR: YES.

MMMC AS A MATTER OF PRINCIPLE I WOULD SAY "YES, GLADLY"..

14: WELL, GOOD. SHALL WE LEAVE IT THEN AS IT IS? THAT YOU
PLEASE LET US KNOW WHEN YOU (XMG)
MO: THE FIRST MOMENT I HEARD YOUR VOICE, I THOUGHT IT WAS THE
BIG WHEEL IN PER ON.

GC,9, DOES HE SPEAK LIKE THAT?
N
F
ΜΟ: 630, IT SOUNDS ANYWAY IN MOSCOW IT SOUNDS VERY SIMILAR.
FR: THAT IS HOWEVER... ()-7&534)

MO BUT GIVE H M MY REGARDS.
14: THANK YOU.

-MO: (/.&) HEAT, .4. )39. ((B))

((A)) NOT IDENTIFIED
((B)) VERY POOR AUDIBILITY. TRANSLATION SUBMITTED WITH
RESERVE.

GP-1/
43 : 4 35

MS 98Ø ER CN
TI 02 JAN 64 08002
P/L ((GERMAN)) W/R/QOF/T 01-64

49904-64
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
