Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA

RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10288

RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA

FROM: NSA

TO: PRINCIPAL DEUTY ASST SECDEF(INTEL)

TITLE:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE QUIERIES TO NSA CONCERNING THE WARREN COMMISSI

DATE: 01/26/76

PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS:

SSCSGO, WC INVESTIGATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS: X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA:

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

RELATED DOCUMENTS ENCLOSED-PARTIAL DPULICATON OF 144-10001-10127,-10195,

-10211,-10212, AND -10025 THIS COMPLIATION OF RECORDS WAS LOCATED IN DR.

LOUIS TORDELLA'S (FORMER DEPUTY DIRECTOR, NSA) RECORD COLLECTION.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: N0078

26 January 1976

TOP SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY

OF DEFENSE (INTELLIGENCE)

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Queries to NSA Concerning

the Warren Commission

Reference your letter dated 14 January 1976 transmitting

a request from Mr. Alton Quanbeck of the Senate Select

Committee Staff. The following information is provided in

response to Mr. Quanbeck's letter, keyed by paragraph to

his letter (inclosed - see underlined portions). Most of

the information was made available to the SSC Staff, Mr.

Jim Johnson, during an interview with Dr. Louis Tordella

on 20 January 1976.

Para. 1. NSA requested permission to retain

photocopies of those reports on which we had worked merely

as record copies of our efforts on behalf of the Commission.

It was felt that if a question should arise at that time

concerning what analytic efforts had been involved and the

number of manhours expended, a record copy would prove useful.

No operational use was made of these documents except to

hold them on file for a period of time which cannot now be

determined. To the best of our present knowledge, the photo-

copies have now been destroyed. Absolutely no results

relevant to the assassination were obtained through NSA's

analytic look at the exhibits. The Commission, in the person

of Mr. Allan Dulles, had asked Dr. Tordella, informally, to

review the exhibits for any secret writing or codes which

might have been contained in the documents. Dr. Tordella,

after causing a careful review of the documents by NSA crypt-

analysts, reported verbally to Mr. Dulles and other Commission

members that nothing whatsoever had been achieved by the

analytic effort. No written reply was submitted.

Classified by DIRNSA/CHCGS (NSA/C55M 123-2)

Exempt from CDS, ED 110

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

Serial: N0078

Para. 2. NSA is uncertain as to what is precisely

meant by these comments, but we assume that the comments on

names refer to our biographic files which are maintained on

foreign personalities of potential intelligence significance.

As the Committee knows, these biographic files are maintained

(now at CIA incidentally) as analytic support. It is also

possible that the Commission was referring to the fact that

names are frequently seen in traffic collected for foreign

intelligence purposes and therefore NSA might have access

to foreign names not otherwise available to the Intelligence

Community.

Para. 3. It may well be that CIA did obtain such

transmissions and pass them to NSA for analysis, but no one

presently working that analytic area recalls such a request.

Discussions with Dr. Tordella also failed to shed any light

on this subject. There are no files or records which we have

been able to locate from that time frame which would sub-

stantiate such a claim. In fact, the only file the responsible

analytic group has been able to locate concerning a request

from the Warren Commission deals with a file compiled from

open sources citing major dates in the last months of Oswald's

life. Presumably the date file was to be compared with NSA

product on/about the key dates in the hope that something

could be deduced. The file does not contain any "hits."

The analysts who performed this effort have since retired.

Para. 4. The informal request from Mr. Dulles is

the known total extent of NSA's role in assisting in the

investigation. The file discussed in Paragraph 3 is the only

file thus far recovered. There is no information which can

now be identified which was developed from Cuban or Soviet

transmissions relating to the assassination.

Para. 5. We have no information on this subject

at all. However, pursuant to the subject raised during the

Tordella interview, we have searched our files manually,

and as Mr. Lowman agreed during the Tordella interview, we

have recovered three product reports (Inclosures 2 through

4) which show that Cuban military forces did go on alert

immediately after the assassination. There is no SIGINT

evidence, however, that the Cuban forces were alerted prior

to the assassination, thereby suggesting that they had prior

knowledge of the event.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

2

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

Serial: N0078

Para. 6. No hard copy material of any kind was

provided to the Commission (see Para. 1).

DAVID D. LOWMAN

Special Assistant

to the Director

for Congressional Reviews

4 Incls:

a/s

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

cc: DIR (Less Incls) Serial: N0078

D/DIR "

ESS "

ESS/R

ESS, Mr. Lowman

G, Mr. Peksa

NCRDEF

A, Miss Caracristi (Less Incls)

L221 "

M/R: Inclosures 2 through 4 are product reports numbered

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63, 2/O/CUN/R196-63 and 2/O/CUJ/R58-63.

Frank Foster/O/ESS/316ls/26 Jan 76/kjb

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

TOP SECRET

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20301

14 January 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR The Director, National Security Agency

The attached letter from Alton Quanbeck, Senate Select

Committee staff, dated 13 January 1976, is forwarded for your

action.

Please provide this office with a response to Mr. Quan-

beck's questions as soon as possible, but not later than

22 January 1976. Your response should include a proposed date

the Committee staff may have access to files mentioned in

paragraph 4.

Attachment

Thomas K. Latimer

600484

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET

UPON REMOVAL OF ATTACHMENTS THIS

DOCUMENT BECOMES UNCLASSIFIED

Doc ID: 6878938 Do Ref ID; A4268794, 10285

TOP SECRET

CONTROL NO. 208

R2132

RELEASED SEEN BY

REFERRED TO RECEIVED

OFFICE SIGNATURE DATE TIME DATE TIME NAME & OFFICE SYMBOL DATE

Handle Via Indicated Controls

COMINT

....

Access to this document will be restricted to those persons

cleared for the specific projects;

WARNING

This document contains information affecting the national security of the United States within the meaning of

the espionage laws U. S. Code Title 18, Sections 793, 794 and 798. The low prohibits its transmission or the

revelation of its contents in any manner to an unauthorized person, as well as its use in ony manner prejudicial

to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government to the detriment of.

the United States. It is to be seen only by personnel especially indoctrinated and authorized to receive in-

formation in the designated control channels. Its security must be maintained in accordance with regulations

pertaining to the BYEMAN and Communications Intelligence Controls. No action is to be token on any com-

munications intelligence which may be contained herein, regardless of the advantage to be gained, if such

action might have the effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source, unless such action is first

approved by the appropriate authority.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A42687.94. 10288

United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 94TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

January 13, 1976

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer

Special Assistant to the Secretary

U. S. Department of Defense

Washington, D. C. 20301

Dear Tom:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation of

the assassination of President Kennedy, we earlier received

answers to certain questions put to NSA. Since then we have

examined other material pertaining to NSA's contribution to

the Warren Commission's investigation and we desire further in-

formation from NSA.

By way of background for this request, we note the Warren

Commission provided NSA various documents and asked NSA to re-

view them for any cryptological significance. NSA found no

cryptological significance and its report of this fact was pub-

lished by the Commission.

1. By letter of July 10, 1964, (a copy of which is attached)

Mr. Rankin provided General Blake a copy of certain documents

requested by Dr. Tordella for NSA's files. Since NSA's analysis

of the documents was apparently completed at the time of Rankin's

letter we wish to know why NSA wanted to keep these documents

for its file. Further, we wish to know what use, if any, was

made of these documents and what results relevant to the assassina-

tion were obtained from such use.

2. In a Commission staff internal memorandum, discussing the

documents provided NSA, it is reported that NSA is "primarily

interested in names," and NSA claims it has "information on names

which the CIA does not have." Assuming these statements are ac-

curate, we wish to know what significance such names would have

TOP SAUCE

HANDLE VIA COMINE CHANNELS

CLASSIFIED SSC Intell. act.

EXTREM FENERAL DECLASSIFICALON

SCHOOL OF 06:

ยง5l: dns or more

AUTOMAERALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

Impossible to Determine.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer

January 13, 1976

Page Two

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS

to NSA and what information on names NSA had that CIA did not.

If names had significance, what names did NSA use in its analysis?

3. We are informed that CIA obtained transmissions from the

Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for November or December 1963 and

that it may have passed these to NSA for analysis. Did NSA re-

ceive these transmissions or any transmissions relevant to the

assassination inquiry? ? Did it analyze them? What were the re-

sults of its analysis?

4. We are interested in learning the extent of NSA's role in

assisting in the investigation of the assassination. In that

connection, please inform the Committee the extent of NSA files

relating to the assassination. Please provide the staff of the

Committee access to those files. Please provide the staff with

a summary of all information NSA developed from Cuban or Soviet

transmissions relating to the assassination.

5. We have been informed that after the assassination the

Cuban government instructed its embassies and consulates to re-

turn all files on Oswald to Cuba. What information does NSA

have on whether such instructions were issued?

6. In connection with the answers to questions 4 and 5, please

indicate whether such material was provided the Warren Commission

and provide copies of all documents evidencing that fact.

We would appreciate receiving a response to these questions

as soon as possible and to expedite this inquiry we are sending

a copy of this letter to Mr. Foster of NSA.

Sincerely,

Alton H. Quanbeck

CLASSIFIED BY SSC Intell act

EXEMPT FROM CLASSIFICATION

1

cc: Frank Foster

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

NSA

JLR:RM/bjc

7/7/64

Lieutenant, General Gordon A. Blake, U. S. A. F.

Director, National Security Agencr

Fort George 0. Meade, Maryland

Dear General Blake:

JUL 1 0 1964

In regard to Dr. Tordello's request, the National

S curity Agency is authorized to keep for its file the following

photographic copies of items which have been used by the

Commission in its investigation:

(1) Commission Exhibit 31

(2) Commission Exhibit 15

(3) Commission Exhibit 104

(4) Commission Exhibit 18

(5) Typewritten version of Commission Exhibit 24

(6) F. B. I. items A-2, A-6

(7) F. B. I. items 137, 152

Thank you for the cooperation and assistance sou

have rendered the Commission.

Sincerely,

SIGNED

J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

cc: Mr. Rankin

Mr. Willens

Mr. Mosk

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878938 Doc Ref ID: A4268794 10288

ROUTING

TO NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS

1 NSA

2

3

4

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURPENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

SIGNATURE

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

DIA SSO

CONTROL NO. 600484

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO DATE

DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

APPENDED DOCUMENT CONTAINS

SPECIAL INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL

Access to this document will be restricted to

those individuals approved for Special Intelligence.

Warning Notice

Sensitive Intelligence Sources and Methods Involved

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE

ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

DIA FORM 567 (10--74) SI COVER SHEET

Previous editions of this form are obsolutes

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL
