Doc ID: 6878885
Doc Ref ID:CONFIDENTIAL
DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10271
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM: USM-603
TO: DIRNSA
TITLE :
NEWS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEATH AMMOUNCED IN CUBA
DATE: 11/22/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
NOTICE OF DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS: IB
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

CONFIDENTIAL
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Ref ID: A426866
NNNNNZCZCZIJØ40
ZKZKRRSNI ZHO DETCF 373
ZKZKOO ZSLDE
VRA1 42
OO YEKAAH YEKAOA YEK ARQ

DEYEK AVR 55 22/20477 NOV

ZKZK 00 LSI NRL DE
02220452 ΖΥΗ

FM USM 603

TO DIRNSA
INFO CUSASA
USM 613
ZEM

SECRET KIMBO IABCX 6836
REF DIRNSA 221 91 47:

OPERATOR CHATTER ON CUYS 50106 AND CUYS 50103 AT
PPROX 2020Z INDICATE THAT NEWS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S
DEATH HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED IN CUBA GIST OF OPERATOR
CHATTER FOLLOWS:
CUYS 50106:

YES ITS POSITIVE CAMAGUEY AND LAS VILLAS HEARD
IT OVER RELOJ.
CUYS 50103:

OP STATED THAT HE WAS SORRY TO HEAR OF KENNEDY'S
DEATH BECAUSE HE DIDNT LIKE TO HERE OF ANYONE'S DEATH.
ALSO STATED THAT THOSE PEOPLE (THE AMERICANS) ARE NOW
KILLING EACH OTHER AND THAT THERE WILL BE SOME
HAPPY PEOPLE HERE (CUBA) TONIGHT.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
