Doc ID: 6878951
TOP SECRET UMBRA PATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10094
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/BLD/T2027-63: CUBAN AUTHORITIES STATE VIEWS CONCERNING DEATH OF [R]
DATE: 12/03/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
BRAZIL, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878951
Doc Ref ID: A4268722 TOP SECRET DINAR

Brazilian BLDC-1 WS 74003 3/0/BLD/T2027-63
IS 03 Dec 2001Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

CUBAN AUTHORITIES STATE VIEWS CONCERNING DEATH OF KENNEDY

FR Havana: BASTIAN 27 Nov 63
TO Rio de Janeiro: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 290

Confidential.

Soon after the death of KENNEDY several authorities and persons
associated with the Cuban Government openly expressed to me their
concern relative to the consequences in regard to Cuba and were
unanimous in believing that any other president would be "even
worse." Another concern of the Cubans was expounded in the
unexpected speech by FIDEL CASTRO on Saturday when he accused the
news agencies of trying to connect the Soviet Union and Cuba to
the crime and asserted that the reactionaries of the United States
are trying to create "a state of anti-Soviet and anti-Cuban
hysteria." Further, yesterday the Foreign Ministry in an official
communique confirmed that the indicated assassin tried to obtain
a visa to Cuba without success and repeated that reactionary sectors
tried, in that way, to involve beforehand Cuba and the Soviet Union
in the events and are trying now to cover up the masterminds and
real motives for the crime. There was no official announcement
here of sorrow for the death of the President of the United States.

MS UKF-120 CN ILC TI --

Brazilian 3/O/BLD/T2027-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
