DATE:03/25/97
PAGE: 1
Doc ID: 6878868
---
TOP SECRET UMBRA
Doc Ref ID: A4268740

AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10106
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/POD/T1488-63: INCREASED TENSION IN HAVANA FOLLOWING VENEZUELAN
DATE: 12/10/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
PORTUGAL, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
VENEZUELA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
MEXICO CO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRĄ
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID 6878868
Doc Ref ID A4268740
TOP SECRET DINAR
Portuguese PODH WS 9804 3/O/POD/T1488-63
IS 10 Dec 20192 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

INCREASED TENSION IN HAVANA FOLLOWING VENEZUELAN COMPLAINT TO OAS

FR Havana: GONZAGA FERREIRA 3 Dec 63
TO Lisbon: Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Msg Nr: 20

Confidential.

I wish to inform Your Excellency that a certain tension
prevails in the Latin-American embassies accredited here, since
they think that the risk of a break-off of relations with Cuba
has grown dangerously since the well-founded Venezuelan complaint
against Cuba because of her aid to the FALN and the resulting
convocation of the OAS. They think that ROMULO BETANCOURT,
while requesting hemispheric military action against Cuba in the
OAS, knows that he may not, or almost certainly will not, obtain
enough votes for his proposal. But such (2 gr G) would grant him
the authority then to demand and specify a total break of relations
with Cuba by the American States. The Brazilian Embassy believes
that Brazil will try not to go so far as to vote for a break, but
if the others approve it, she would have to follow the majority.

Tension between Cuba and Mexico has also increased suddenly
as the result of a violent note which the Foreign Ministry here
delivered to the Mexican Ambassador because of the detention in
Mexico City of a Mexican woman employed at the Cuban consulate
who was reportedly connected with the accused assassin of
President KENNEDY, LEE OSWALD. The Mexicans reportedly returned
the above-mentioned note.

The death of President KENNEDY, the Fidelista campaign to
incriminate U.S. Rightists in that assassination, lack of
knowledge as to the future direction of Washington policy [1 gr G]

Portuguese 3/O/POD/T1488-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878868
Doc Ref ID A4268740
TOP SECRET DINAR
Portuguese 3/O/POD/T1488-63

Venezuela and the threat of armed action or at least diplomatic
isolation and the immediate tightening of the embargo, the
knowledge that this country is behind the subversion in Venezuela
with arms and men (the Cuban press, while ridiculing the incident
of the arms on the beach at Paraguana, gives no indications
whatever of indignation or repudiation of the Venezuelan accusa-
tion) have created a growing feeling of crisis. Cuban forces
continue with precautionary measures, and at dawn today there
was observed a large movement of military transports to the east
[2 gr G] call-up of the militia. On the other hand, the internal
counterrevolutionaries reportedly have been very restless for
four days in expectation of the OAS resolutions.

MS 974 CN ILC TI -2-

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
