Doc ID: 6878912 TOP SECRET UMBRA Date:03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE:1
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10088
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCO
TITLE :
3/0/ARD/T554-63: BULGARIAN REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT [R]
DATE: 12/31/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
BULGARIA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
ARGENTINA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc.ID: 6878912 TOP SECRET DINAR
Doc Ref ID: A4268716
Argentine ARDV-3 WS 637 3/O/ARD/T554-63
IS 31 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO
ST 300

BULGARIAN REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Sofia: FERREYRA 26 Nov 63
TO Buenos Aires: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 50

The [Bulgarian] Government presented official condolences
to the United States Government on the assassination of
President KENNEDY. The Minister of Foreign Affairs visited the
United States Minister for the same purpose.

The people received the news with surprise and regret.
The local television station repeated via Moscow the burial
services in the United States. The press of this country
eulogized the personality of the late President as a supporter
of peace, attributing his death to an ultrarightist group.

All the diplomatic missions flew their flags at half-
mast -- the Soviets with black crape -- with the exception of
Communist China. Religious services held in Sofia were
attended by representatives of all the diplomatic missions.

MS 974 CN ILC TI --
Argentine ✓ 3/O/ARD/T554-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
