Doc ID: 6879101 DoRef ID A4274864 DATE: 01/13/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10169
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCO
TITLE :
2/0/CUJ/R58-63 ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERMINATED [R]
DATE : 11/26/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
TERMINATION OF ORIENTE ALERT

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991.
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91!

Doc ID: 6879101 Doc Ref ID: A4274864

2/0/CUJ/R58-63
26 Nov 63 2019Z
DIST: O/WA
ST 250

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

COMINT REPORT

WARNING
This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within
the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission
or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and read by only those
persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-
munications intelligence security regulations and who need the
information in order to perform their duties.

No action is to be taken on information herein reported, re-
gardless of temporary advantage, if such action might have the
effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879101 Doc Ref ID: A4274864

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/CUJ/R58-63
26 Nov 63 2019z
DIST: O/WA
ST 250

ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERMINATED

The alert in Oriente Province (see 2/0/CUN/R196-63) is be-
lieved to be terminated. The alert, apparently prompted by
President KENNEDY's death on 22 November, was possibly pre-
scheduled to terminate on 25 November. There have been two orders
which suggest that the alert was destined to be concluded on
25 November; they are:

1) Access to the Coastal Observation Post at Punta
Maisi (20-15N 74-09W) was restricted until 25 November because
of the alert (see 2/QS/CUN/R667-63); and

2) Subordinates of Banes, Headquarters Eastern Naval
District, were to receive further orders on the 25th, presumably
concerning their alert status (2/0/CUN/R196-63); no such orders
have been noted in communications.

There have been no further references in intercepted communi-
cations to the alert since 02222 on 23 November (2/QS/CUN/R667-63).

It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation
Post at Punta Maisi extends to other Observation Posts in Oriente
Province such as reported on 23 November when First Army Coastal
Observation Posts were placed in an alert status
(2/LR1/CUM/R188-63), and that the restriction was to be lifted on
25 November by all those posts.

Further indication that the alert has terminated is the fact
that the Cuban Navy was engaged in an island-wide communications
exercise on 25 November. It is considered unlikely that such an
exercise would be conducted under alert conditions.

There have been no further references to the alert status
of the (D percent Santiago de Cuba) units which was first ob-
served on 23 November (2/SL/CUA/R05-63). All CRAF and Soviet
Forces Cuba communications appear to be normal during this
period, 22-26 November 1963.

DIST: O/WA PLUS CG 2ND MAW

Page 1 of 1 Page(s)
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
SECRET KIMBO
