Doc. ID: 6878974
Doe KTOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10308
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO

TITLE :
3/0/Z-GHD/T1335-63 MRS. KENNEDY'S MESSAGE RELAYED TO NKRUMAH. [R]
DATE: 12/04/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
KENNEDY, JACQUELINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

-TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878974
Doc Ref ID: A4268836

TOP SECRET DINAR

NOT TO BE REPRODUCED IN ANY FORM WITHOUT
PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THE RELEASING
AUTHORITY OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
*******NO FOREIGN DISSEM*******

Ghanaian GHDY WS 1306 3/O/Z-GHD/T1335-63
IS 4 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO

MRS. KENNEDY'S MESSAGE RELAYED TO NKRUMAH

FR London: GHANACOM 26 Nov 63
TO Accra: FOREIGN --
Msg Nr: CHA/3677

For Osagyefo from KWESI ARMAH.

I have just returned from Washington to London. All went well
at the funeral of President KENNEDY and your noble gesture in sending
me to represent you was much appreciated by Mrs. JACQUELINE KENNEDY
who would like me specially to express to you how deeply touched she
was by your kind message and to thank you most warmly for your
gracious demonstration of keen interest in, and affection for her
and her family in this hour of sorrow. She would like me to recipro-
cate your kind wishes and to extend to you and your family her warmest
thanks and regards. She intends writing to you after sometime.

MS -- CN -- TI --

Ghanaian 3/O/Z-GHD/T1335-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
