Doc ID: 6878888
-
TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10070
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/CLD/T1075-63: CUBAN REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNED [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
CHILE, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

ID: 6878888
Chilean
Doc Ref TOP SECRET DINAR
CLDA WS 29179 3/O/CLD/T1075-63
IS 24 Nov 19172 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300

CUBAN REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Havana: Chilean Embassy 23 Nov 63
TO Santiago: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 130

The reaction in Havana to the assassination of President
KENNEDY has been calm but cautious. Only isolated Communist
groups have shown any rejoicing. The radio and news reels
are reporting objectively and in a correct manner, without
showing regret (2 gr G) statement by the government. The
newspapers are printing today the statements of the Cuban
Ambassador to the United Nations.

((A)) Circles were seriously concerned over the reper-
cussions which the assassination of the President of the
United States may have.

((A)) Obviius omission.

MS 20 CN ILC ΤΙ 23 Nov 63 1933Z

Chilean 3/O/CLD/T1075-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE
ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
