Doc ID: 6878937
Doc Ref ID: A4268779
DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10274

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM: USA-73
TO: DIRNSA
TITLE :
DISCUSSION REGARDING ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

CLASSIFIED
DOCID: 687823ZCZI1044
Doc Ref ID: A4268779
ZAZK OO DHL DETCB469
ZKZK OO ZSL DET
HAA972ADA961
CLASSIFIED
ΟΟ ΥΕΚΑΛΗ
CLASSIFIED
DE YDHAAD 53 22/2154Z NOV
ZAZK OO SAL NRL DE
Ο 2221532 ΖΥΗ
FM USA 73
TO DIRNSA
INFO USA 75 1
This work sheet contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espion
THIS FORM FOR INTERNAL AGENCY USE ONLY
Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission or the revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized persor:
CLASSIFIED WORK SHEET
ZEM
SSECRET KIHIDO FI OPN 22-11-474.
CLASSIFIED
REUR 221920Z NOV 63.
BTWN 2027/20312 22 NOV 63 RUSS MERCURY GRASS FACS REFLD PROB AT
GERA THO UNID OPERATORS AT TWO UNID STATIONS/DISCUSSING
CLASSIFIED
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY, ONE OF
THE OPERATORS STATED" DID U HEAR THAT KENNEDY IS DEAD?"
CLASSIFIED
"THEY SAY THAT HE WAS SHOT". "ONE BULLET THRU THE HEAD".
OPERATOR GIVES OTHER DETAILS AND MENTIONS THAT THIS IS
NOT NEW IN POLITICS". NO REFERENCE TO ANY SOVIET ACTIONS
BASED ON EVENT.
H/W TECH INFO:
1. RZBC
!
U.S GOVERNMENT PRIN FING OFFICE: 1563-672003
FIED
2. 60.00N NCS/M Ø10 DEG ABLE
3. UNSUBORD PROB SAM RELATED NET AT GERA, EAST GERMANY

4. U/I-1
States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U. S. C.,
any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
JAL AGENCY USE ONLY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
• 17071-2
the
of w!
ORI
A
