• Doc ID: 6878981
Doc KTOP4SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10304

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO
TITLE :
3/0/FRD/T1196-63 TAMGANYIKA MOURNS KENNEDY [R]
DATE: 12/07/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878981
Doc Ref ID: A4268831
TOP SECRET DINAR

French FRDBT WS 0-9835 3/O/FRD/T1196-63
IS 7 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO
ST 300

TANGANYIKA MOURNS KENNEDY

FR Dar es Salaam: BOURDEILLE 23 Nov 63
TO Paris: The Department --
Msg Nr: 289

The tragic death of President KENNEDY has aroused deep emotion
here. President NYERERE last night convened the Council of Ministers,
whose decisions he did not, however, make known; he said he was too
overwhelmed to make a statement. Today has been declared a day of
national mourning. (B val Government offices), banks, and schools
are closed.

MS UKF-120 CN ILC TI --
French 3/O/FRD/T1196-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
