Doc ID: 6878982
Doc FOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10294
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/BLD/T2053-63 BRAZILIAN FOREIGN MINISTER TALKS WITH SECRETAARY RUSK [R]
DATE: 12/07/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1, X3, X5, X6, X7,X8
TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---
Doc ID: 6878982
Doc Ref ID: A4268805

TOP SECRET DINAR

Brazilian BLDY WS 7864 3/0/BLD/T2053-63
IS 07 Dec 16172 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

BRAZILIAN FOREIGN MINISTER TALKS WITH SECRETARY RUSK AND
PRESIDENT DE GAULLE

FR Rio de Janeiro: Foreign Ministry 29 Nov 63
TO New York: UN Delegation --
Msg Nr: --

[EXTRACT]((A))

Bulletin Nr. 228.

The Foreign Minister returned yesterday from the United
States where he represented the Brazilian Government at the
funeral ceremonies for President KENNEDY. Correio da Manha
reports that the Foreign Minister stated to newsmen that
President LYNDON JOHNSON intends to convoke representatives
from the South American countries. He said that he met with
United States Secretary of State DEAN RUSK and that they took
up various matters of a bilateral nature regarding relations
between Brazil and the United States. He reported also that he
had a brief informal conversation with President DE GAULLE and
with the French Ambassador to the United States. . .((A))

((A)) Remainder of text irrelevant.

MS -- CN -- TI --

Brazilian 3/0/BLD/T2053-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
