Dốc ID: 6879017 Doc Ref ID: SECRET MORAY DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

AGENCY: NSA JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10337
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF

TITLE :
2X/0/ΟΟΥ/T408-63 AMERICAN INVITES CASTRO TO ATTEND KENNEDY FUNERAL
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879017 Doc Ref ID: A4269359

SECRET SABRE
2X/O/QOY/T408-63
IS 25 Nov 22152 P
Dist: HCF Plus
ST 300

SECRET 0/27215-63

AMERICAN INVITES CASTRO TO ATTEND KENNEDY FUNERAL

FR Detroit: S. KARCH((A)) 24 Nov 63
TO Havana: Premier FIDEL CASTRO
Msg Nr: --

Sir, as a private American citizen of good will, may I urge
you to seize this fateful opportunity to demonstrate to our
bereaved people an act of good faith and sympathy and so to
bridge the gulf of ill feeling between our peoples to remove the
barriers for mutual understanding and friendship. You can do
this by coming personally to the funeral of the late President
in Washington tomorrow.

((A)) A Dr. SAUL KARCH is listed in the April 1963 Detroit telephone
directory.

GROUP 1 PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(S)
SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 19 CN ILC TI 25 Nov 63 14312
-- P/L [English] WS 2284 2X/O/QOY/T408-63

0/27215-63

PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
