TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 03/26/97
Doc ID: 6878910
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
PAGE: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10095
RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE:
3/0/MXD/T1656-63: U.S. PRESIDENT'S SPEECH BEFORE CONGRESS EASES [R]
DATE: 11/29/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
HAITI, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET DINAR
Doc ID: 6878910
Mexican MXDM WS 11265 3/0/MXD/T1656-63
IS 29 Nov 22292 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

U.S. PRESIDENT'S SPEECH BEFORE CONGRESS EASES TENSION IN HAITI

FR Port-au-Prince: REYES 28 Nov 63
TO Mexico City: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 729400

The speech of the United States President before Congress
has decreased tension, for the rumor was circulating that the
Vice President had given evidence in recent months that he favored
taking radical measures against the DUVALIER Government.

In official circles, it is believed that the assassination
was plotted by [1 gr G] secret [1 gr U].

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

MS 1 CN ILC TI 28 Nov 63 2050Z

Mexican 3/0/MXD/T1656-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
