Doc ID: 6879054
Doc REF TOP SECRET UMBRA
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10361

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T2030-63 UN HONORS KENNEDY

DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

Doc ID: 6879054
Doc Ref ID: A4269394

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION***
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 386 3/0/W/T2030-63
2 Dec 63

UN HONORS KENNEDY

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN 27 Nov 63 1930
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Urgent
Msg. Nr. 495

For WINIEWICZ.

1. Tuesday's plenary session was devoted exclusively to honoring KENNEDY's
memory and there was very little occasion for political declarations. The
chairman agreed with all the delegations that only vice chairmen (13, among
them, the great powers), the chairmen of the seven committees, and the ex-
chairman of the assembly will appear.

A. FEDORENKO, appearing in the name of all the Socialist countries,
and the Bulgarian expressed hope that KENNEDY's policy will be continued. The
Romanian's appearance was without political accents.

B. The Western delegations emphasized European solidarity with the
States except the Frenchman, who limited his appearance to expressions of
sympathy.

C. The Latins and Asians stressed the necessity of international
agreements, the Africans the continuation of the process of decolonization.

2. The leading motive, authorized by JOHNSON, of STEVENSON's declaration
was the continuation of efforts to reach agreements through negotiations and
full support for UN activities to "uphold the peace." However, the formu-
lation of the thesis that there will be no JOHNSON policy as there was no
KENNEDY policy can be interpreted as a signal that the new administration
intends to have a free hand also in matters begun by KENNEDY. From our con-
versation with American delegates we deduce that they do not expect a change

Polish 3/0/W/T2030-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

Doc ID: 6879054
Doc Ref ID: A4269394

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION****
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Polish 3/0/W/T2030-63
in the State Department. STEVENSON will probably remain until elections.
They flatly denied the rumors that at the beginning of 1964 they will renew
intrigues against us at the session (article 19 which deals with the loss of
vote) on the question of payments for the Congo operations and UN forces in
the Near East (see our Nr. 478)ª.

From the constant emphasis that the new administration in Washington
will concentrate on internal matters and that it needs time before it will be
capable of conducting an active foreign policy, we surmise that they fear
pressure from our side.

3. The tempo of the session slowed down but we will be able to adjourn
before the holidays. To date there are no signs that the atmosphere is
worsening.

a. See 3/0/W/T1937-63. LEWANDOWSKI

MS CN TI

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
