Doc ID: 6878925 TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/24/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10117
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA [R]
TO : HCF

TITLE :
3/0/BED/T12-64: EFFORTS STILL BEING MADE TO GET AMERICAN OUT OF CUBA [R]
DATE : 01/08/64
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
BELGIUM, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878925 Doc Ref ID: A4268752
TOP SECRET DINAR
Belgian BEDC WS 24670 3/O/BED/T12-64
IS 08 Jan 22532 P
Dist: HCF

EFFORTS STILL BEING MADE TO GET AMERICAN OUT OF CUBA

FR Mexico City: WERY 31 Dec 63
TO Brussels: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 18

Your telegram Nr. 23((A)).

I have already intervened with the United States Embassy
in Mexico City with regard to the person concerned, who is an
American and whose records have been shown to the Swiss Embassy
in Havana. Since the assassination of the President of the
United States, American services have become extremely rigid
and seem to appear more reticent regarding the American citizen,
a former officer, living in Cuba. Mexican services will issue
a transit visa as soon as the American Embassy in Mexico City,
where the matter has been pending fora month, makes the request.

I suggest an intervention also be made in Washington. I
shall see what I can do unofficially.

((A)) 3/O/BED/T06-64.

:
MS 974 CN ILC ΤΙ --

Belgian 3/O/BED/T12-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
