Doc. ID: 6878926
Doc Ref ID: A4268753
UMBRA
DATE:03/24/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10118

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA [R]
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF

TITLE : [R]
3/0/FRD/T70-64: CASTRO INTERVIEW ON RELATIONS WITH U.S.
DATE: 01/10/64
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: [R]
FRANCE, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc ID: 6878926
Doc Ref ID: A4268753-

TOP SECRET DINAR

French FRDBT WS 11103, 11102, 3/O/FRD/T70-64
11211 IS 10 Jan 1935Z P
Dist: HCF

CASTRO INTERVIEW ON RELATIONS WITH U.S.

FR Paris: The Department 3. Jan 64
TO Havana: French Embassy --
Msg Nr: 2-4

[3-part message complete]

I am communicating to you herewith Washington
telegram Nr. 25-27 of 2 January 1964.

On 1 January Mr. FIDEL CASTRO granted an interview by
telephone to a newsman from the ABC radio and television
network. The Cuban leader repeated that he hoped to
normalize relations between his country and the United States,
and he added: "Henceforth it is up to the United States to
take a step in that direction." Mr. CASTRO stated that
"until the tragic death of President KENNEDY," he thought
that "the normalization of Cuban relations with the American
administration was possible." While acknowledging that
public opinion in the United States is still hostile to
Cuba and wants the naval blocade of the island strengthened,
he appeared "full of hope" as to the future of his relations
with President JOHNSON.

The Cuban Chief of Government even gave concrete proof
of his good will by bringing up the problem of the
indemnification of American citizens who were victims of
nationalization in the following terms: "We are ready to
speak of the indemnities due under the heading of the
nationalization of American property by the revolutionary((A)).
Thus, you can see that we are sincere when we say that we
are ready to talk, but that does not depend only on us."

However, Mr. CASTRO did refuse to pay the price of
French 3/O/FRD/T70-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878926
Doc Ref ID: A4268753

TOP SECRET DINAR

French 3/0/FRD/T70-64

renunciation of Marxism for the "amelioration of his relations
with the United States." The administration has not, up to
now, commented on this interview, which is receiving little
publicity in the American press.

((A)) Obvious omission.

MS 19 CN ILC TI --
-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
