Doc ID: 6879026 Doc KTOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10349
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO
TITLE :
3/O/TUD/T1282-63 REACTIONS ON NORWAY TO KENNEDY MURDER [R]
DATE: 12/07/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879026 Doc Ref ID: A4269375

Turkish TOP SECRET DINAR
TUDN WS N-9005 3/O/TUD/T1282-63
IS 7 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO Plus
ST 280

REACTIONS IN NORWAY TO KENNEDY MURDER

FR Oslo: Embassy 24 Nov 63
TO Ankara: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: --

41.

The news of President KENNEDY's murder aroused great emotion
and [1 gr U) here. An hour after the occurrence of the event
yesterday, Norwegian television and radio devoted their programs to
the assassination of KENNEDY. Premier GERHARDSEN, in a speech during
these programs, said that the death of KENNEDY was a great loss not
only for Norway but for the whole world. He said "When he [1 gr M],
we ourselves [1 gr U feel secure."

This morning (B val the Premier), the Foreign Minister, all the
government [1 gr M), the Secretary-General of the Foreign Ministry
and the Director of Protocol visited the American Ambassador
personally and offered condolences. The King sent telegrams of
condolence to the new President and to Mrs. KENNEDY and declared a
fourteen-day mourning period. The President of Parliament sent wires
of condolence to the heads of the United States Senate and House
of Representatives and the Foreign Minister sent one to Mr. RUSK.
University students are preparing a great demonstration.

I went to the American Embassy, and after signing the register,
visited the Ambassador and [2 gr M].

MS 36 CN TUDB ØØ120 TI 24 Nov 63 14492
✓
Turkish 3/O/TUD/T1282-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
