Doc ID: 6878903
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
PAGE: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10091
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/ITD/T3747-63: PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEATH NEW BASIS FOR ANTI-ZION [R]
DATE: 12/17/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ITALY, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
EGYPT, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
ARAB COUNTRIES, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878903
Doc Ref ID: A4268712
TOP SECRET DINAR-
Italian ITDP WS 12599 3/0/ITD/T3747-63
IS 17 Dec 2015Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 270

PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEATH NEW BASIS FOR ANTI-ZIONISM IN SYRIA

FR Cairo: -- 27 Nov 63
TO Rome: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: --

Signed: MAGISTRATI.

It was not difficult to foresee that the dramatic murder
of the American President with all of (3G) new complications
would have repercussions also in the usual polemic between the
Arabs and Zionism.

In fact, the circumstance that the killer of OSWALD is
of Hebrew-Polish origin has now caused a notable part of the
Cairo press to move in the (5G) that Zionism (13G/M) to this
whole tragedy. Naturally, there are no explanations of motives
and circumstances but this subject (B val also) is, in the eyes
of some of the Arab extremists, useful in muddying the waters
and once again directing accusations against Hebrew organizations.

A report follows.

MS 78T CN ITDB 50113 TI --

Italian 3/0/ITD/T3747-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
✓
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
