Doc ID: 6879042
Doc RTOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10370
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF

TITLE :
3/0/KOD/T1415-63 GOOD REACTION TO ROK PRESIDENT'S U.S. VISIT SAY ENVOY [R]
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879042
Doc Ref ID: A4269403
TOP SECRET DINAR-

Korean
KODY
WS 311-WNS-121 3/0/KOD/T1415-63
(South)
IS 25 Nov 19392 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300

GOOD REACTION TO ROK PRESIDENT'S U.S. VISIT SAYS ENVOY

FR Washington: Ambassador
TO Seoul: Minister of Foreign Affairs
Msg Nr:
and AAACC((A))
25 Nov 63 0100Z
--

(Presidential Visit to the United States Communication Nr. 1).

I report as follows regarding the visit of the President to
the United States.

1. ETA Chicago: 24 November, 0815 hours.

2.
ETA Washington: 25 November, 0005 hours.

For the reception at Chicago, Minister of Foreign Affairs]
KIM and Consul HAN PYO'NG KI from New York and Ambassador KIM,
Minister SONG, and Secretary KONG from Washington each arrived
this morning in Chicago.

3. In accordance with advance information, preparations have
been made for the Korean Residents Association and Students
Association to welcome (the President) in Chicago.

4. A gist of the schedule here is as follows:

25 November 1200 hours: Attend funeral rites and
interment at Arlington Cemetery.

1700 hours: Attend U.S. President's reception
and dinner for foreign heads of state.

26 November time unconfirmed: Attend U.S. President's
Korean (South)
3/0/KOD/T1415-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879042
Doc Ref ID: A4269403
TOP SECRET DINAR

Korean (South)
3/0/KOD/T1415-63
private interview for foreign heads of state.

5. Departure and United States visit scheduled unconfirmed.

6. Accommodations are as follows:

Staying at Ambassador's Official Residence: The President,
Public Information Director LEE, Office Director PAK KYO'NG HU,
Secretary CHO. Telephone number 265-3434.

Staying at Shoreham Hotel: Adviser SIN CHIK SU, Protocol
Chief CHO'NG. Telephone number 234-0700, Rooms D412 and D415.

7. The fact that the President is personally attending has
produced an extremely good reaction here in official and press
circles. On the evening of 23 November just after the President's
departure from Seoul, it was immediately reported here through
public communications media, and official quarters also expressed
their appreciation.

((A)) Routing indicator for ROK CIA.

MS
CN
TI
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
