Doc ID: 6878931 Doc Ref ID: A4268782 DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10277

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
WATCH LOG 0600 25 NOV 63 - 0600 26 NOV 63
DATE : 11/26/63
PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS
OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878931 Doc Ref ID: A4268782

060 25 Nov 63 - 0600 26 Nov 63 Power
Arbuckle

6. CATEGORY 13-Right Position!
State Council Chairman Walter Ulbricht, head of SED, is no longer a member
of the FDGB Executive. For the first time since the FDGB was founded, he was
not elected to that body at the Sixth FDGB Congress which ended this weekend.
He probably did not allow his name to be included among the candidates because
of the number of his posts. Adolf Hamecke, the initiator of the "Aktivists
Movement" in the Soviet Zone, has also left the executive. The newly elected
FDGB executive now has 233 members; previously there were 199. Of this 148
were elected to that body for the first time.
(FEIS 14, 25 Nov) (DUO)

7. SECTION I - Protocol On Exchange of Goods Between Bulgaria And Yugoslavia:
A protocol on the exchange of goods between Bulgaria and Yugoslavia in
1964 was signed in Sofia. During the year Bulgaria will supply Yugoslavia
with machine tools, farm machinery, means of transport, machinery for food
industry, electric equipment, chemicals, and other goods; it will import
from Yugoslavia construction materials, means of transport, engines for ships,
chemicals for use in agriculture, paper, cables, tires, and so forth. The
protocol was signed by Marin M Kralev, head of a department of the Bulgarian
Ministry Of Foreign Trade, and Alexander Druljaca, head of a department of the
Yugoslav State Secretariat For foreign trade.
(FRIS 45, 25 Nov) (DUO)

Mr. Power
SFC Hamilton
8. SECTION 111/1 - Germany - First Reaction from People in Karl-Marx-Stadt
to Kennedy's Assassination:
The following is the full text of a rush information report re assassination
of US President Kennedy, from SED Bezirk Ho, Karl-Marx-Stadt to SED Central
Committee, Berlin dated 23 November 1963:
According to a report from Kreis Di ty Brand-Erbis-Dorf streamers of black
crepe were displayed this evening in the Kreis Di ty in connection with the
assassination of the President of the United States.
This is concentrated in particular on two thoroughfares.
Crepe was likewise displayed in the show window of the CDT, on the show
windows at the railroad station, on the board on Bahnhofstrasse; on a wooden
door at the railroad station; in the waiting room of the Reichsbahn and in the
waiting room of the VEB Kraftverkehr.

In addition to this, worker Merkel from Brand-Erbisdorf flew the DDR
flag with red, white and blue bunting this morning. Responsible comrades held
discussion with him.
In Karl-Marx-Stadt opposite the Vin-Weberei-Ausruostung was one wrote in
white oil paint: "East Germany mourns for Kennedy."
A similar slogan was placed opposite the council of Kreis Karl-Marx-Stadt
rural.
Colleague Naumann of the PGH Friseure, ((XG)) Ossietzky Stresse, declared:
"The Reds did it, there will be a world war for sure."
(USM 6204, 2/87/301/R284-63, 2511557 Nov) (

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS
OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

TOP SECRET DINAR
0500 25 November 1963 - 0600 26 November 1963 LTJG Taylor
Sec Hamilton

11. SECTION 111/8 - Probable Reference.... ....continuation of:
and move at Thooz. The Regimental Headquarters was then informed by a speaker
at the site that he (the speaker at the site) was going to proceed to the
Nuevitas SAM Site to check out the equipment. This person is believed to be
associated with the SAM Support Facility at Victoria de Las Tunes and was
probably making technical checks of equipment at the Camaguey and Nuevitas
SAM Sites prior to the movement of these sites.
Since the Camaguey site was ordered to practice only three hours prior
to the scheduled time of movement of the site the move may be a mobility
exercise rather than abandonment of the site.
(DIRNSA 2/0/CURUK/R211-63, 2518002 Nov)(TSD)

12. CATEGORY 13 - East Germany: Situation Report No. 112 - Political/Economic:
SHD Communications on 22 November revealed that press, radio and television
had been advised by the Party Agitation Commission in Berlin to "take note
of a report which indicated Fascist circles in the assassination of President
Kennedy.
Further to para. 2 of 2/AG0/C2463 regarding the murder of one and possible
two East German Taxi-drivers by Soviet Citizens in Dresden, a Berlin Party
official stated on 22 November that further local discussions on the matter
were undesirable since" ((9 Percent the Soviets could easily get wind of it))".
A new Church Law ((Amtszuchtsgesetz)) approval at a recent meeting of the
Mecklenburger Landes Synod ((probably the Synod of the Mecklenburger State
Church)) which ended on 9th November, has caused considerable alarm among
party members, the law, the main aim of which is apparently to "remove"
clergymen branded as "progressives" ((a probable reference to those who voted
in the recent election)), was approved despite the intervention of the Bishop,
who forbade it, and of the party which enlisted at least 15 Clergymen to pose
strong objections, while the party has branded the law as invalid, because
it concerned with the whole of Germany whereas there are two separate German
states. Full reasons for refutation are to be worked out in detail later.
(OCHO 2/400/C2480, 2516442 Nov)(TSD)

13. SECTION THI/8 - Alert in Eastern Naval District Relaxed, 23 November:
As a result of the death of President Kennedy, the Eastern Naval District
of Cuba was placed on an alert on 20442 co 22 November by Banes, Headquarters
for that District. At 20372 on 23 November, the alert was relaxed a certain
degree by Banes; instructions were passed to Santiago de Cuba, a subordinate,
to give leave to 25 percent of their personnel. For the 23rd and 24th and that
further orders would be forthcoming on 25 November 1963.
COMMENT: The authorization to grant leave to personnel is an indication that
the alert is somewhat relaxed and the note that further instructions would be
issued on Monday, 25 November indicates that a non-urgent view has been adopted
for the situation by Cuban Naval authorities in the Eastern Naval District.
(DIRNSA 2/0.0UN/R196-63, 2518152 Nov)(TSD)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS
OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET DINAR
