Doc ID: 6878917 A4268741
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/24/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE: 1

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10107
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA [R]
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO

TITLE :
3/0/W/T2084-63: MCCLOY INTERVIEWED BY POLISH U.N. MISSION CHIEF ON [R]
DATE : 12/06/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
POLAND, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED\

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc ID: 6878917 Doc Ref ID: A4268741

TOP SECRET DINAR

*****NO FOREIGN DISSEM*****
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in whole or in part
is prohibited except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 412 3/0/W/T2084-63
IS 06 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO

MCCLOY INTERVIEWED BY POLISH UN MISSION CHIEF ON ASSASSINATION
INVESTIGATION

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN 4 Dec 63 1000
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Routine
Msg Nr: 515

For WINIEWICZ.

In conversation with me, MCCLOY, a member of the presidential
commission stated that he has serious doubts of the credibility
of the investigation to date. He does not eliminate the possibility
that the attempt on KENNEDY was made by two persons. However, in
view of JOHNSON's order that the commission investigate also the
circumstances of OSWALD's slaying, some of the commission's
operations and its report could come after RUBY's trial and perhaps
even after the verdict and appeals. In the meantime the trial
was postponed until 3 January (sic), and the FBI released to the
press information that their investigation confirms OSWALD's guilt,
and that he had no accomplices.

LEWANDOWSKI

MS -- CN -- TI --

Polish 3/0/W/T2084-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
