Doc ID: 6879002
Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10323
RECORDS SERIES :
i
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/JAD/T1908-63 REQUEST INFORMATION ON REACTION TO KENNEDY'S DEATH AN [R]
DATE: 12/06/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2`
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879002
Doc Ref ID: A4269344
TOP SECRET DINAR

Japanese JADA-3 WS CIR 27716 3/0/JAD/T1908-63
IS 06 Dec 2317Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

REQUEST INFORMATION ON REACTION TO KENNEDY'S DEATH AND TO NEW
ADMINISTRATION

FR Tokyo: OHIRA 5 Dec 63
TO Mexico City: Japanese Embassy Priority
Msg Nr: 2683

As we yet have received no reports of the reactions to
President KENNEDY's assassination from the country to which you
are accredited would you please collect and send by air mail,
the following in connection with the assassination and the
JOHNSON administration; (a) governmental trends and views,
(b) the postures of the principal political parties
(especially the opposition parties), (c) the tenor of news-
paper articles, and (d) the reaction of the general public.
Furthermore, in the future, please attend to reporting the
information point by point when such important incidents
occur in the future.
1
Passed to Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Lima, Santiago
and Havana. This wire is addressed to Mexico City, San
Salvador, Panama City, Santo Domingo, Caracas, Bogota,
Asuncion, Montevideo, and Quito。

MS -- CN -- TI --

Japanese 3/O/JAD/T1908-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
