Doc ID: 6878968 Doc Ref ID: SECRET MORAY DATE: 01/24/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10158
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA [R]
FROM: ROA [R]
TO: CALZADILLA, CUBAN EMBASSY
TITLE :
SPAINSH COUNSELOR IN HAVANA DECLARED PERSONA NON GRATA
DATE: 06/03/66
PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS:
TRANSLATED MESSAGE FROM HAVANA TO CUBAN EMBASSY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : CABLES (USE FOR CABLES, TELEGRAMS, WIRES, AIRGRAMS)
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878968 SECRET LARUM Ref ID: A4269389

2X70/CUD/T1663-66
IS 03 Jun 19552 P
Dist: HCF

SECRET 0/15748-66

SPANISH COUNSELOR IN HAVANA DECLARED PERSONA NON GRATA

FR Havana: ROA
TO Madrid: CALZADILLA, Cuban 28 May 66
Embassy Urgent
Msg Nr: 2301 2,3,4,5,6,8

I am transcribing below, for your information and for
appropriate purposes, the text of the note delivered this morning,
Saturday, to the Spainish Embassy in Cuba.

"Havana, 28 May 1966

"Charge d'Affaires:

"I have the honor of addressing you on a matter which the
Government of Cuba considers of the utmost importance and gravity,

GROUP 1 PAGE 1 of 1.2 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

BUREAU SOURCE-6-Culia
164-330-210-4602
JUL 14 1966
NOT RECORDED
MS UKC-108- CN ILC TI -:
Cuban CUDY WS 42637 5-m

INDEXED PAGE 1 of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

• Doc ID: 6878968 Ref ID: A4269389 SEGRET LAROM SECRE

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66
٤٠٠

since it deals with crimes that have been committed and activities
that have been carried out against the integrity and stability
of the state by Mr. JAIME CALDEVILLA Y GARCIA VILLAR, Press
Counselor of the Spanish Embassy, who intolerably abused the
diplomatic immunity and privileges granted him and used them
for purposes, like those cited, that are very different from the
functions assigned to him.

"With the purpose of documenting what has already been
indicated, I take the liberty of informing you below in detail, of
the charges which have been brought against Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,
proved in an authentic and irrefutable manner, and which compel
us to formally and expressly request his immediate departure from
the country persona non grata.

"The main activites of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA are
directed toward the search, by illicit means, for information of a

GROUP 1 PAGE 2 of 12 PAGE(s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SEGNED
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

2
PAGE of. 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

-: Doc ID: 6878968 Ref ID: A4269389 LARUT SEONE

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66
1
1

military, economic and political nature, the fulfillment of tasks
of ideological diversionism and the recruitment of agents and
counterrevolutionaries for the Central Intelligence Agency, tasks
in which he has availed himself of the very close collaboration of
his secretary, Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ((A)).

"Since February 1959, Counselor CALDEVILLA has undertaken the
job of recruiting members of the then Rebel Army, among them the
traitor ALDO VERA ((A)), MARIO MARRERO((A)), and AGUSTIN PARRADA((A)).
The latter, once his activities were discovered, found it propitious
to flee the country to avoid prosecution.

"Along this same line, he also used the aforementioned Miss
CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, instructing her to infiltrate student
organizations for the purpose of creating diversionism in the
ideological order, and she established, for this purpose, intimate
relations with Mr. PEDRO LUIS BOITELL((A)), ex-President of the

GROUP 1 PAGE 3 of f 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SEONER
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 3 of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
1

Doc ID: 6878968 Ref ID: A4269389 LARU

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

CECDLE 0/15748-66
i
:

University of Havana School of Engineering. When the latter was
arrested and sentenced to imprisonment on the Isle of Pines,
Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ went there and carried out military and political
espionage activities. The data and information that she obtained
on that occasion were transmitted to Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,
and included microfilms.

"In February 1960 Counselor CALDEVILLA conceived a plan for
an attempt against the life of the then First Deputy Chairman of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Mr. ANASTAS MΙΚΟΥΑΝ,,
a guest in Cuba, for which purpose he delivered arms to a group
of counterrevolutionarly elements. It was not executed, according
to what Counselor CALDEVILLA himself claims, because of the
cowardice of the assassins, He also sought refuge and protection in
the home of his collaborator JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ((A)), for Mr. ISRAEL
ZAMORA PEREZ((A)), a fugitive from Cuban authorities for plotting
an attempt against the life of the Vice Prime Minister and Minister
of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, Commander RAUL CASTRO RUZ,
V
GROUP 1 PAGE 4 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 4 of 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET LARUSI
Doc ID: 6878968 Ref ID: A4269389 SECRET

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66
:
1

as well as a plan to create an incident at the United States Naval
Base at Guantanamo. Later, Counselor CALDEVILLA arranged for the
mentioned ISRAEL ZAMORA PEREZ to take asylum in the Colombian
Embassy in Havana.

"In May 1962 he instructed his agents CARMEN JIMENEZ GARCIA
and ALFREDO SERRA ECHEVARRIA((A)), an accountant at the Embassy, as
well as other individuals, to infiltrate different organizations
and offices of the Cuban State. The former went to work in the
offices of the National College of Architects, where she established
contacts with numerous professionals to induce them to desert, as
well as to obtain data and information from the Congress of the
International Union of Architects, where she worked as a simultaneous
interpreter.

"The latter worked at the National Institute of Agrarian Reform
where, if a break in diplomatic relations between Spain and Cuba
occurred, he would be in charge of obtaining confidential information
GROUP 1 DECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 5 of 1.2 PAGE(S)

PAGE 5 of 1.2 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
1

Doc ID: 6878968 GSECRET LARI

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

SECRET 0/15748-66
1
i

to supply to the enemy. In July and October of 1962 he distributed
correspondence with instructions, received by diplomatic pouch,
for the counterrevolutionary organization, the Revolutionary
Student Directorate with which he maintained close relations
through BLANCA MARTINEZ DEL HOYO ((A)), JORGE MEDINA BRINGUIER((A)),
and LUIS FERNANDEZ ROCHA((A)). The first two were national coordinators
for civic resistance and strengthening of the Revolutionary Student
Directorate, and the latter, a CIA agent.

"It has also been proved that Counselor CALDEVILLA's wife,
at his suggestion, has maintained relations with relatives of
political prisoners and counterrevolutionaries, inciting them to
send letters of protest to foreign embassies and international
organizations.

"On the occasion of the arrest of counterrevolutionary GENARO
FERNANDEZ FOLGUEIRAS, national leader of the counterrevolutionary
organization, the National Union of Revolutionary Institutions, he
GROUP 1 PAGE 6 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECDEAT
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 6 of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878968 SECRET LARUS

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

GECREE 0/15748-66

stated and offered evidence that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA was
to recruit him and give him training in arms and explosives, even
within the Spanish Embassy, and instruct him in organizing an
espionage network for the illicit procurement of military, economic
and political information and in penetrating the Cuban-Spanish
Friendship Society, whose building he was to occupy in the event
the United States Government launched an armed aggression against
Cuba. He was to be given arms and equipment at the opportune
moment. In like manner FOLGUEIRAS was instructed by the former
to distribute arms and relay guidance to counterrevolutionary
groups in the event of this aggression. The espionage ring organized
by the aforementioned is made up of eight persons who receive for said
task the amount of 250.00 US dollars monthly and the promise of
a deposit of 500.00 US dollars in an account in their names in a
Miami bank.

"Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, for her part, was entrusted by
Counselor CALDEVILLA with the mission of directing an extensive
GROUP 1 PAGE 7 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC WILONG
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 7 of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET LARUSI
2X/O/CUD/T1663-66
Doc ID: 6878968
Ref ID: A4269389

CECRET 0/15748-66

espionage network in various State organizations, such as the
Ministries of the Sugar Industry, Industries, Foreign Trade and
Education, and the National Bank of Cuba. Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ,
on one occasion, supplied him with a directive of the nickel industry
as well as a plan and a report with specifications on the type of
arms, location, and personnel of the military installations of Managua
and Matanzas which were delivered by LUIS ANTONIO COLLAZO DENNISN((A)),
who is a deserter from the Armed Forces.

"In April 1963, when the Achives was pentrated by CIA agent
RAMON GRAU ALSIN((A)) who directed an espionage ring, a note was
found which confirmed that a certain message had been delivered to
Counselor CALDEVILLA. In June of the same year, photostatic copies
of the motions of the Student Congress on the Struggle of Peoples
Against Colonialism were delivered to him by CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ.
:

"During the celebration in Havana of the First Solidarity
Conference of the Peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America,
GROUP 1 PAGE 8 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 8 of 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878968 SECRET LARUS
Ref ID: A4269389

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

AEGNE 0/15748-66

Counselor CALDEVILLA attempted to obtain the names and activities
of the delegates, guests, and journalists attending, as well as
reports on its development and agreements.

"In February 1966, he gave refuge in his residency to counter-.....
revolutionary fugitive ALDO ABREU BACALLAO((A)), a convicted saboteur.

"The Cuban authorities have also learned through the statements
of several arrested persons, that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA uses the
pouches and enciphered Embassy cables to receive and transmit
instructions, reports, requests for information, and correspondence
related to illicit activities and is personally in charge of
deciphering messages in an office on the second floor of the chancery,
next to the office of his Secretary, and is also in charge of
reviewing and approving all of the material obtained in the country
by his numerous agents and contacts before sending it abroad.

GROUP 1 PAGE 9 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION CECDET

PAGE 9 of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
1

Doc ID: 6878968 Ref ID: A4269389 SECRET LARUM

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66
i
:

SECRET 0/15748-66

"We were also able to prove the connection between Counselor
JAIME CALDEVILLA and the ex-official of the Spanish Embassy
ALEJANDRO VERGARA((A)), whose departure from the (5G) it was also
necessary to request, as well as the participation of both in
crimes against the integrity of the State and the illegal removal
of foreign currency and jewels from the country. Both kept as
refugees in the Spanish headquarters two telegraph operators in
charge of intercepting transmitted radio telegraph communications
by means of radio sets. They also recruited a telegraph operator
from the Ministry of Communications who was in charge of the
espionage work of that organization. At that time Counsellor
JAIME CALDEVILLA was personally concerned with verifying the reports
supplied by these two individuals, with the aid of an employee of
the Embassy, ADELA RODIL RODRIGUEZ ((A)), and CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ.
He give direct orders to the latter.

"Both VERGARA and Counselor CALDEVILLA have known of the plans
for sabotage and assassinations, including those against the Prime
GROUP 1 PAGE 10 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 1.0 of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
1

OSECRET LARUA
Doc ID; 6878968 Ref ID: A4269389 SECRET

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66-
!

Minister of the Revolutionary Government, Major FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.
Both were exposed by leaders of counterrevolutionary organizations,
having offered, on one occasion, to supply to one group rifles
with telescopic sights. The authorities have proof that one or
the other maintains relations with the well-known counterrevolutionary
leader MANUEL ARTIME, whom Mr. VERGARA visited in Miami sometime
before the mercenary invasion was crushed at Playa Giron, in
April 1961, with the knowledge of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA.

"It has been known that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA has been
dedicated, furthermore, for some time, to the illegal removal from
the country through the diplomatic pouches of the Spanish Embassy
of jewels and foreign currency delivered to him by different persons,
on a basis of 20 percent of its value. In this way, the removal
from the country of the possessions of ALVARO GONZALEZ GORDON((A))
and his wife MARIA TERESA VELASCO SARRA((A)) was facilitated.

GROUP 1 PAGE 11 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 11 of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET LARUAS
Doc ID: 6878968 Ref ID: A4269389

2X/O/CUD/T1663-66
t

SECRET 0/15748-66

"You will agree with me on the importance of this matter, both
painful and regrettable, since it is the question of an official
of the diplomatic representation of a country with which Cuba
maintains normal relations.. We trust that your understanding and
collaboration will help conclude this affair as soon as possible.
We also trust that the Spanish Government will adopt pertinent.
measures to prevent acts of this nature from recurring.

"I take advantage of this opportunity, Mr. Charge d'Affaires,
to reiterate to you the testimony of my highest considerations."

((A)) Personal names not verified, as in text.

GROUP 1. PAGE 12 of 12 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 12 of 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
