Doc ID: 6878887
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
PAGE:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10062
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO [R]
TITLE :
3/O/W/T1597-63: AUSTRIA UNDECIDED ON SENDING DELEGATION TO KENNEDY FU [R]
DATE: 11/26/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
AUSTRIA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878887
Doc Ref ID: A4268691
TOP SECRET DINAR
************************************************NO FOREIGN DISSEM*************************************************
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in whole or in part
is prohibited except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

Austrian AUDE WS 627 3/O/W/T1597-63 P
IS 26 Nov 63
Dist: HCO

AUSTRIA UNDECIDED ON SENDING DELEGATION TO KENNEDY FUNERAL

FR Vienna: Foreign Ministry 23 Nov 63
TO Washington: Embassy --
Msg Nr: 55067

Reference your Nr. 25118((A)).

Since the Austrian Foreign Ministry has as yet no reliable
information on the procedure to be followed by the small European
countries, with the exception of the Netherlands, it has not yet
been decided whether Austria will send a government delegation.
Please let us know immediately whether your Embassy has acquired
any information about the intentions of the Scandinavian countries,
Finland, and Switzerland. According to information here, Sweden and
Norway intend only to appoint their ambassadors to Washingtion as
special ambassadors, but have not yet come to any decision, since it
is said that the Danish Prime Minister intends to go to Washington.
It is said that the the Swiss do not even intend to appoint their
Ambassador to Washington as special ambassador.

The teleprinter is constantly busy.

((A)) Not readable.

MS -- CN -- TI --

Austrian 3/O/W/T1597-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
