Doc ID: 6879037
Doc-RTOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10367
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T2038-63 MFA INFORMATION BULLETIN NR. 51, 26 NOVEMBER 1963 [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRVEM NS/CSS Manual 100-2
Dated: 24 February 1908
DECLON VA VO VE KOXI

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879037
Doc Ref ID: A4269400

TOP SECRET DINAR
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-15 WS 34 3/0/W/T2038-63
2 Dec 63

MFA INFORMATION BULLETIN NR. 51, 26 November 1963

FR Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs 26 Nov 63 1600
TO Berlin:a Polish Embassy Routine
Msg. Nr. 13401
[EXTRACT]b

For the Chief of Mission.

Information Bulletin Nr. 51, 26 November 1963.

I. Washington, 24 November (DROZNIAK)。

After JOHNSON's first meeting with members of government and congress an
even more general opinion [25-50M] internal will be continued by him in:
principle, although by different methods. It is believed that the role of
RUSK and the State Department will grow greater. JOHNSON is to assure
MIKOYAN that he will follow KENNEDY's line. MIKOYAN's presence (at the funeral]
is evaluated as KhRUShCHEV's gesture of good will and his intention to follow
the same policy toward the USA [25-50M] DE GAULLE: the wish to take advan-
tage of JOHNSON's inexperience to play the role of a man of providence and
solidarity with the USA.

B. JOHNSON will concentrate on consolidating his position in the party
and country. He assumes that he will be a candidate in the elections. In
both parties [25-50M] is expected. The Republicans believe that their chances
have improved.

II. New York, 25 November. (Information received from LEWANDOWSKI.)

The struggle on the political implication of the assassination continues
between the right and groups close to KENNEDY. It will probably pass to the

Polish 3/0/W/T2038-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 3 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

"Doc ID: 6879037
Doc Ref ID: A4269400

TOP SECRET DINAR
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Polish 3/0/W/T2038-63

foreign and domestic policies of the new president. Even though the right
was unable to raise anti-Communist feelings in the nation and thus force
JOHNSON's immediate abandonment of the KENNEDY line, it is, however, widening
its influences. Its representatives in Congress began an open attack of
KENNEDY's policy of looking for agreements with the Soviet Union, and thus
emphasized the hope that JOHNSON will not be such a "green politician."
Western European and Scandinavian delegations with whom we talked avoided all
speculations on the outcome of the meetings with MIKOYAN, DE GAULLE and ERHARD.

III. Berlin, 24 November.

According to United States Armed Forces Radio in Berlin, a state of full
alert of the Bundeswehr was announced in the FRG on 23 November after KENNEDY's
assassination. The tone of the FRG propaganda was sad, and in a form not
offensive to the right emphasized that KENNEDY's policy was favorable to the
FRG. The massive funeral displays were organized only in West Berlin and not
in the FRG. This discounted KENNEDY's attitude towards West Berlin and is an
attempt "to fall in line with KENNEDY's successor."

IV. Lagos [25-50M]

AZIKIV in a message considers KENNEDY a victim of racial hatred. He
questions the retention of UN offices in the States. All commentaries play
up the racial question.

V. Rio, 23 November.

A. According to the embassy the change in the USA shocked political
circles who now expect USA policy towards Latin America to take a turn to the
right.

B. The domestic situation is tense. Fear of a crisis with violent
outcomes exists.

VI. Paris, 24 November.

According to French and German press circles, DE GAULLE during his meeting
with ERHARD placed emphasis on the establishment of a friendly atmosphere.
The talks were of a probing nature. The differences of opinion: According to
ERHARD, Europe must be firmly allied with the USA and according to DE GAULLE
the reverse is desired. ERHARD believed that USA-USSR dialogue was useful

Polish
:
2- 3/0/W/T2038-63

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Dọc ID: 6879037
Doc Ref ID: A4269400

Polish
TOP SECRET DINAR
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
3/0/W/T2038-63

(by maintaining certain borders and concessions from the USSR). According to
DE GAULLE, the dialogue was not necessary and gave no results. ERHARD raised
the importance of trade with Socialist countries.

VII. Baghdad, 25 November.

Before the formation of the government, three groups appeared in the
officer corps:

A. The Nationalists (who) demanded liquidation of the Ba'ath,

B. [a group which] agreed against the inclusion of the Ba'ath in the
government but without its liquidation,

C. [one which] demanded the inclusion of the Ba'ath in the government.

ARIF announced a non-partisan government whose aim is the consolidation of
the nation. The officers gave him an ultimatum: Complete the consolidation
in eight weeks or resign, the government will not represent any party, allow
the Ba'athist to take part, release all political prisoners. Ba'ath supporters
defeated the liquidation of the national guard which is only disarmed, the
cadres (20-40M) the nationalists [25-50M]

VIII. Damascus, 23 November.

According to the embassy, HAFEZ's conciliatory tone towards ARIF and his
justification of the events in Iraq is due to his desire to save the Ba'athists
in Iraq. A break with Iraq would indicate a breakdown of the policy [25-50M]
Syria as well as bringing ARIF closer to NASSER. From this stem the compli-
ments to ARIF and strong attacks on NASSER.

IX. Havana. 22 November.

According to a Venezuelan source, the National Liberation Movement is
establishing permanent representation in Havana, increases its contacts, and
intends to establish representations in Europe the first being in Prague.

a. The Cabinet of the Minister.

Circular message; also sent to Hanoi, Paris, Stockholm and Budapest.
b. Remainder of text irrelevant.
MS 88 CN PLDA 50109 TI

:
-3-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
