TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 09/12/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
PAGE: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY: NSA
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10206
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM: LOUIS STOKES
TO: NSA
TITLE :
INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS OF KENNEDY AND KING
DATE: 12/09/77
PAGES: 15
SUBJECTS:
SENATE LTR 12/20/76 RE: ANTONIO VECIANA
REPORT 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62 RE: SERAFIN
SSCI INQUIRY 1/4/77 RE: KENNEDY & KING
SENATE LTR 12/30/76 TO NSA RE: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE
[R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM/REPORT/LETTERS
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.
JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91

TOP SECRET UMBRA

(unclassified until filled) TOP SECRET
ROUTING SLIP
FROM
Select Comm on Assassinations (Stokes)
SUBJECT OR BRIEF OF CORRESPONDENCE (include listing of incis.)
Request for information
SUSPENSE DATE
29 Dec 77
TO
DIRNSA
HOUR

DATE OF CORRESP. FILE OR SERIAL NO. REG. NUMBER NO. COPIES DATE RECEIVED
3
20 Dec 77
INCOMING FOR OUTGOING
ROUTE INITIAL DATE ROUTE INITIAL DATE
1 DIR 6
2 D/DIR
3 ADPL
4 EXREG 5
4 Jan 78
5 ADLA 2
4 Jan 78
LAO 1
EXEC/DDO 3
3 Jan 78
GC 4
3 Jan 78
L221 7
LAST

DO NOT FILE
RETURN TO L2

I. ACTION REQUIRED (complete items 1 thru 3) EXT. II. NO ACTION REQUIRED (if no action, sign below and
give org. and ext.)
1. PREPARED BY SIGNATURE (organization and ext.)
Julia Wetzel, U2 316ls
2. TYPE CHANGE ACTION (from)
INITIAL LETTER ☑ FINAL REPLY
INTERIM REPLY OTHER (specify in "REMARKS"
below)
3. TO SERIAL
Deanne Siemer, General Counsel, DoD
REMARKS (If additional space is necessary use reverse) ROUTING LEGEND
Original & cys furnished forwarded this date under IN FOR OUT
control nos. LAO-006-78 & LAO-007-78 by undersigned 5 ACTION 1
Pat Tarte, 5 January 1978 COMMENT
CONCURRENCE 1-4
Please send DoD General Counsel - Miss Siemer INFORMATION 2-4
a copy of the incoming letter. LAOsanty of EDITING 5
Ma to Col. Hartich, 02D (LA) for delivery SIGNATURE 6
to Minsiemer
DISPATCH 7
8 12:02 1221 FILE
RETAIN
TOP SECRET
ROUTER (initial) VERIFIED (initial) DATE ROUTING SLIP NUMBER
EX REG 20 Dec 77 5507e

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
HAROLD E. FORD, TΕΝΝ.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.
(202) 225-4624
Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Vice Admiral B. R. Inman
Director
National Security Agency
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Dear Mr. Director:

The Select Committee on Assassinations was
established by the House of Representatives pursuant
to House Resolutions 222 and 433 to investigate the
assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. In conjunction with our
investigation into the assassination of President
Kennedy, it has come to the Committee's attention that
the National Security Agency has information which
will be of substantial assistance to the Committee's
inquiry.

The information to which the Committee staff
needs access and which is held by the National Security
Agency is all outlines and summaries and biographical
data relating to the Cuban Intelligence network of
Premier Castro covering the period from 1959 - December 31,
1964 with emphasis on operations by Cuban Intelligence
operatives in the United States and other Latin American
countries, and any analyses of the direction and evaluation
of specific assassination operations.

In addition, the Committee requests that it be
provided access to any other materials you have relevant
to the assassination of President Kennedy or any
investigation into the assassination. Access to all
materials we will receive from the National Security
Agency will be restricted to staff members with a TOP
SECRET security clearance.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Vice Admiral B. R. Inman
- 2 -

The Committee requests that it be provided with
these materials as soon as possible, and would very much
appreciate it if we could receive such access prior to
the end of December. Should you have any questions con-
cerning this request, please address them to myself or
our Chief Counsel, G. Robert Blakey.

Sincerely,

Louis Stokes
Chairman

LS:jwc
cc: Mr. Frank Foster
Office of Legislative Affairs

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Legislative Affairs
9 Dec 77

To: DIR
THRU: DIDIR
SUBJECT: Corrsafondence from
Home Assasinations Committee.

1. The Deputy Chief Crinal
of the Assasinations Comintee, Mr. J.
Wolf called to say he is sonding
a litter to DIR. Lether, co be
drafod Monday, will request
certain information (unspecified)
of NSA.

2. Committee is imisestigading assasinations
1/ Porsident Kennedy o lew. King.
2. Joste

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Chief, Congressio Activities

22 December 1976

Mr. Burke,

Attached is a request from the SSCI.
I have talked to Fred Cassedy at the FBI
and he says that the Committee is looking
into the Kennedy assassination and that
the SSC provided Veciana's name.

I intend to contact Howard Liebengood
next week and will probably arrange for
the SSCI to review the document out here
at that time.

for
Rila
John

Ma Berha
saza ok,

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF
RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND
THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII, CHAIRMAN
HOWARD M. BAKER, JR, TENN., VICE CHAIRMA
BRO BAYH, IND.
ACLAJE. STEVENSON, JR.
WILLIAM D. MATHAWAY, MAINE
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.
OSEPH P. BIDEN, JR., DEL.
ROBERT MORGAN, S.C.
GARY HART, COLO.
CLIFFORD P. CASE, NJ..
STROM THURMOND, S.C.
MARK O. HATFIELD, ०९३७.
BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
ROBERT T. STAFFORD, VT.
JAKE GARN, UTAH
MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT., EX OFFICIO
HUGH SCOTT, PA., EX OFFICIO

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
HOHARD S. LIEBENGOOD, MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR
MICHAEL J. MADIGAN, MINORITY COUNSEL
United States Senate
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
(PURSUANT TO S. RES, 400, 84TH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

SENSITIVE
December 20, 1976

IN REPLY PLEASE
REFER TO R$5900

Mr. Frank Foster
Legislative Affairs Office
National Security Agency
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Re: Document Request

Dear Frank:

We understand that you have been apprised of the
Select Committee's interest in an NSA document dated
29 November 1962 regarding a subject of interest to
the Committee, Mr. Antonio Veciana. If you would be
kind enough to contact me at an early convenient date
to discuss Comittee access to such a document we
would be most appreciative.

Thank you for your ongoing assistance to the
Committee.

Sincerely,

Howard Kelbengord
Howard S. Liebengood
Minority Staff Director

HSL:mlh

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SENSITIVE

for FBI
NOTE: In response to the United States Senate Select
Committee (SSC) On Intelligence request #5724 re Antonio
Veciana, the attached document has been withheld from
SSC. (access only)

Please advise how, if at all, NSA desires this
document to be described to the SSC so that SSC may then
obtain its own clearance from NSA for access to the
document.

:3
::

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
::

TOP SECRET DINAR

documen
US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY

TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

Cuban CUIB-1 WS 36 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
IS 29 Nov 62 P
FR [U]
TO [Puerto Rico): 7 (SERAFIN) 2 28 Νοv 62
Msg Nr: [M]

(XM) cautiousness and equanimity which you possess. The
finery plan (1 wd G) ((A)) be carried out after completing the
recruiting task and when the conditions exist.

MS 84 FR CN CUIS JØØØI
ΤΙ 28 Nov 62 12122 TO 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 145-1
TOP SECRET DINA

BUREAU SOURCE G Cz INDEXED 164-330-210-7
NOT RECORDED
MAR 26 1903

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET DINAR

Cuban 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

The plan for the execution of VECIANA((B)) and ESTEVEZ((C))
is less important than the other. What information (do you have
about) plan PO ALPHA?

Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of
action against VECIANA.

Listen tomorrow to the transmissions about the concrete
objectives. End of message.

✓ MIKE 18 November (XG)

((A)) C percent can.
((B)) ANTONIOVECIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman for ALPHA 66.
((C)) Probably_GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in Puerto Rico and
a member of the coordinating committee of Cuban democratic
organizations in exile.

TIONAL SECURITY AGENCY -2-
TOP SECRET DINAR

BUREAU SOURCE - Cutz - INDEXED 164-330-218--1
NOT RECORDED
MAR 20 1363

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

The SSC may obtain the attached document from NSA as
follows:

A classified document surfaced by the FBI which originated
from NSA contains the name of ANTONIO VECIANA. The document,
dated 29 November 1962, can be requested from Mr. Frank Foster,
Legislative Affairs Office, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755..

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

CONFIDENTIAL

NSA requests that the attached document be described to
the Senate Select Committee as follows:

The document is classified TOP SECRET CODEWORD and can
be identified as 3/O/TRIG-CUI/-T23-62, dated 29 November
1962. It is a record obtained by NSA in the course of a
lawful foreign intelligence operation and makes mention
of an ANTONIO VECIANA. The SSC can obtain this document
from the NSA by requesting it from Mr. Frank Foster,
Legislative Affairs Office, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland
20755.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

5 January

Jerry,

We have sent copies to EXEC/DDO,
GC, V and G. Suggest that it should
also go to DIR & D/DIR.

Jo
John

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

P.SECRET
LIMDIS

TOP SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 4 January 1977
SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Inquiry
into the Assassinations of Kennedy and King

1. On 30 December, the undersigned met with Howard
Liebengood, Deputy Staff Director of the SSCI staff and Tom
Moore, staff member. The meeting was to permit the Committee
to read an NSA end-product report on Cuba in response to the
Committee's letter %235900 dated 20 December 1976. The Committee
staff members exhibited keen interest in the product and the
two Cuban national names contained therein. The Committee
staff also indicated that they intended to broaden the scope
of their inquiry and would forward to NSA another letter
(which has been received and is inclosed) requesting access
to all Cuban reports stored in the repository for the period
1961-1965.

2. After the meeting, the undersigned contacted LTC Don
Bennett of Mr. Latimer's office to inform him of the first
letter since it had been sent directly to NSA. LTC Bennett
indicated that another DoD component had been asked for similar
information. As a result, LTC Bennett stated Mr. Latimer was
revising his earlier containing policy on providing to the
SSCI information on the assassinations and now had decided on
a policy of full cooperation. At Mr. Latimer's direction,
LTC Bennett will draft a letter to Staff Director Bill Miller
suggesting a meeting between the SSCI staff and Mr. Latimer's
staff; the meeting will focus on projected DoD responses to
the Committee's inquiry. NSA will be invited to attend these
meetings.

Cohne Woherenit
JOHN C. WOBENSMITH
Legislative Affairs

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV.
DR. MLK, JR.
Incl:
Ltr dtd 30 Dec 76
cc: EXEC/DDO
GC
V
G
ADLL
LAO

Classified by DIRIGS/CROCS (NGA/CSSM 123-2)
Exempt from
12
Declassify Upon Next by the Originator

TOP SECRET
LIMDIS.
:
HANDLE VET CODES AT GILNIELS CAY (
16- Koon)
auty file.
SBCI Sub-
Kda

DANIEL K. INCUYE, HAWAII, CHAIRMA
HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN., VICE CHAIRMA
BIRCH BAYH, IND.
AXAI E. STEVENSON, JR., ILL.
WILLIAMND. HATHATHAY, MAINE
WALTER D. HUDOLESTON, KY.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR., DEL.
ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.
GARY HART, COLO,
CLIFFORD P.CION.J.
STROM THURMOND, S.C.
MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG,
BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
ROBERT T. STAFFORD, VT,
JAKE GARN, UTAH
MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT., EX OFFICIO
HUGH SCOTT, PA., EX OFFICIO

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
United States Senate
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 400, DITH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 30,1976

IN REPLY PLEASE
REFER TO R#6009
:

Lieutenant General Lew Allen, Director
National Security Agency
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Dear General Allen:

The National Security Agency has recently provided the
Select Committee with certain intercept traffic relat-
ing to Cuba in November, 1962. We found this material
most helpful to the Committee's efforts and would most
appreciate access to any and all such traffic remain-
ing extant at the National Security Agency.

Thank you for your ongoing assistance and cooperation.

Sincerely,

Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Vice Chairman

Classifed by DIRNSA/CHOPS (NSA/GSSM 123-2).
Exempt from EPS, FD 11042, Cat
Beclassify Upon Kotention by the Originator

HANDLE VIA COLIENT CHENNES ONLY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

(onclassified until filled)
ROUTING SLIP
CONFIDEN
FROM
U. S. Senate (Baker)
SUBJECT OR BRIEF OF CORRESPONDENCE (include listing of incis.)
Request for Access
SUSPENSE DATE
7 Jan 77
TO
DIRNSA
HOUR

DATE OF CORRESP. FILE.OR SERIAL: NO REG. NUMBER NO. COPIES DATE RECEIVED
30 Dec 76 6009 4 Jan 77
INCOMING FOR OUTGOING
ROUTE INITIAL DATE ROUTE INITIAL DATE
1 DIR
2 D/DIR (7
3 EX
4 ADPL
5 EX REG

LAST

DO NOT FILE
RETURN TO L2

ACTION REQUIRED (complete items 1 thru 3)
PREPARED BY:

INITIAL LETTER FINAL REPLY
INTERIM REPLY OTHER (specify in "REMARKS"
below)
TO

REMARKS (if additional space is necessary use reve
ROUTER (initial) VERIFIED (initial) DATE ROUTING SLIB NUMBER
EX REG 4Jan 77 000

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
