Doc ID: 6879072
Doc SECRET SPOKE
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10171
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
2/0/CURUJ/R66-63 ARMY'S IN CUBA PLACED ON ALERT STATUS
TITLE :
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
CUBAN NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION-
THIS DOCUMENT IS VERY UNCLEAR AND HARD TO READ

DATE: 09/11/97
PAGE: 1

[R]

[R]

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

[R]
ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Derived From:
Declassify On:
NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91
SPOKE

Doc ID: 6879072
Doc Ref ID: A4269442
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET KIMBO

SECRET KIMBO-
2/0/CURU3/R66-63

All subordinates of the First Army Headquarters in both
Eastern and Southwestern Oriente were placed in an alert status
at 23202 on 22 November 1963 (2/LRL/COM/R187-63).

The urgent need of food at the Pilon (probably 19-58-
77-198) Coastal Battalion was revealed in a message from the
Chief, South Sector, Sierra Maestra Headquarters, Pilon, to Chief
of Services, First Army Headquarters, on 25 November 1963
(2/LRL/COM/T668-63).

PART III B: (CUBAN NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS)

One of the KOMAR-class PGM's, the 10-250, has suffered one
of the first accidents involving a KOMAR vessel in Cuba. At
approximately 08302 on 26 November the 10-250 ran aground while
entering the port of Mariel, sustaining uncontrollable leaks.
Salvage vessels sent to the scene included the GC-59, BO-11,
and LV-28; they were estimated to have worked until 22152, when
it was reported salvage operations were complete (2/QS/CUM/2679-63
and 2/LRL/COM/R135-63). The 10-250 is now in drydock, presumably
at Mariel (2/QS/CUM/R595-63).

A Cuban steamship named the INDALECIO was forced by passengers
to put into the Guantanamo Naval Base on 26 November. Four persons
aboard the vessel were reported to have taken asylum at the base but
a reliable collateral source states that 15 persons remained at the
base and four others returned with the INDALECIO. The vessel was
escorted by a destroyer to the canal leading to Caimanera
(19-59-75-09W) from the Naval Base (2/LRL/CUM/R190, 186-63 and
2/QS/CUM/R681-63). A later report disclosed that 12 passengers and
5 crewmen, including the ship's captain, remained at the Guantanamo
Naval Base (2/LRL/M/3291-63).

An alert which began on 22 November in Oriente Province was
apparently prompted by the death of President KENNEDY. While no
orders or directives have been noted canceling the alert, there
were indications that it probably was to terminate on 25 November.
On 25 November instructions were passed from Banas to a subordi-
nate unit that leaves will be granted to 25 percent of its
personnel (2/0/3/856-63 and 2/QS/CUN/R196-63).

The USNS JOSEPH E. MULLER, TAC-171, has been the subject
of recurring Cuban reports concerning its position. These re-
ports have been noted being passed from Havana to Cabanas, the
KOMAR-class PGM Headquarters. The reports were first noted in
September and have continued until November (2/0/CUN/R195-63).

The Cabanas Naval Base was informed on 23 November by Naval
Headquarters in Havana that there would be exercises scheduled
from 23 to 30 November in the Key West area by U.S. aircraft;
exercises would include pyrotechnical and lateral firing,
ground firing and illumination practices. The information was
reported to have been obtained by "our sources." These sources
were not identified (2/LL/CUN/R30-63).
