Doc ID: 6879001 Doc: TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10322
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/JAD/T1900-63 TOKYO SUGGESTIONS FOR STATEMENT ON OUTER SPACE ISSUE [R]
DATE : 12/06/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879001 Doc Ref ID: A4269343

TOP SECRET DINAR

Japanese JADA-3 WS TUN-27589 3/0/JAD/T1900-63
IS 06 Dec 1845Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

TOKYO SUGGESTIONS FOR STATEMENT ON OUTER SPACE ISSUE

FR Tokyo: OHIRA 4 Dec 63
TO United Nations: Japanese Delegation Very Urgent
Msg Nr: 1034

Reference your Nr. 1962((A)).

1. There is no objection on the whole, but in Paragraph 39
"entire resources" sounds too strong and might better be "toned
down".

2. In Paragraph 30, the passage from "the government of
Japan" to "program" is not quite accurate. We suggest
substituting something like the reference to IGY in Mr. OKAZAKI'S
statement in the First Committee last December.

3. In the first part of Paragraph 33, the reference to the
launching of two Kappa rockets in May should be corrected to
[B val one], and the payload of the Lambda should be corrected
to 180 kilograms.

4. Regarding Paragraphs 34 and 35, recent developments are
as follows:

(a) The Kagoshima Space Center will conduct its second
Lambda test on 10 December.

(b) There were successful tests of television relay by
satellite between Japan and the United States on 23 and 26 November.
(Two tests on each date.) The second test on 23 November conveyed
the sad news of the assassination of President KENNEDY.

Japanese 3/O/JAD/T1900-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879001 Doc Ref ID: A4269343

TOP SECRET DINAR-

Japanese 3/0/JAD/T1900-63
((A)) Available if required, Dated 3 Dec 63. [Reads in
entirety: I intend to make a statement in the First
Committee on the morning of 4 Dec along the lines of my
supplementary Nr. 1963((B)). Please send any comments by
9:30 of the morning of 4 Dec.]
((B)) Available if required, Dated 3 Dec 63. (English text of
statement.]

MS - CN - TI -
-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
