157-10014-10046 
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 08/06/95
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10046
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-H-04

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM: HALLEY
TO :
TITLE :
DATE: 08/19/75
PAGES: 159
SUBJECTS : JMWAVE
CIA
OPERATION MONGOOSE
CASTRO, FIDEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1A
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/31/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Box 2

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId: 32423434 Page 1

HW 50900
76000070076

TOP SECRET
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject
Voorto Criminal Sanctions

The United States Senate 1866
transcript file

Report of Proceedings

INVENTORIED:
ON 312177
BY

Hearing held before

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL
OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Tuesday, August 19, 1975

Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

767007
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

A
1
CONTENTS
2
(Witness: Halley)
3

EXHIBITS
4 EXHIBIT
5
No. 1
6 No. 2
7 No. 3
8 No. 4
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
TOP SECRET

FOR IDENTIFICATION
2
60
92
110

HW

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

7 6 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 7

TASCIOND:amt
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1
STAFF INTERVIEW:
2
3 Tuesday, August 19, 1975
4
1
5 United States Senate
6 Select Committee to Study Governmental
7 Operations With Respect to
8 Intelligence Activities
9 Washington, D.C.
10 The Committes met, pursuant to notice, at 1:25 o'clock p.m.
11 in Room 608, The Carroll Arms.
12 Staff: Frederick Baron, Joseph diGenova, Professional
13 Staff Members.
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1
2
3
4
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
767 007

TOP SECRET
PROCEEDINGS
Mr. Baron. Mr. Halley, is it true that you are here
2
testifying today under alias, and that Halley is not actually
your true identity?

5 Mr. Halley. That is correct.
6 Mr. Baron. Your true identity will be on file with the
7 review staff of the CIA and available for verification by the
8 Committee if that becomes necessary?
9 Mr. Halley. That is my understanding.
10 Mr. Baron. Let me show you a piece of paper marked
11 "Statement Regarding Testimony and Alias" and let me ask you
12 whether this is the statement you signed as we were beginning
13 here today which indicates your true identity and which I have
14 witnessed?
15 Mr. Halley. Yes, that is the correct statement that I
16 signed today. There is a blank there where we have not filled
17 in the Senator's name.
18 Mr. Baron. All right.
19 For the moment, let us leave that blank and enter it into
20 the record as is, as Exhibit 1.
21
(The document referred to
22 was marked Halley Exhibit
23 No. 1 for identification.)
24
25
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area (202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
3
1 Mr. Baron. It is your understanding, is it not, that we
2 have worked out an arrangement with the review staff whereby
3 the statement will be attached to your transcript as an Exhibit
4 and in a sanitized form, leaving out either of the two references
5 to your true identity which will only be available at this
6 Agency.
7 Mr. Halley. That is my understanding.
8 Mr. Baron. Are you aware that you have the right to counsel
C
C
8
9 before the Committee?
10 Mr. Halley. Yes, I am.
11 Mr. Baron. Are you appearing here, voluntarily here today
12 without counsel?
13 Mr. Halley. Yes, I am.
14 Mr. Baron. Are you also aware that at any point you are
15 entitled to cease answering any questions and consult with
16 counsel if you wish?
17 Mr. Halley. Yes, I am aware of that.
18 Mr. Baron. Finally, are you aware that all your Constitu-
19 tional rights are intact before the Committee here today,
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
20 including your Fifth Amendment rights to remain silent?
21 Mr. Halley. Yes, I am.
22 Mr. Baron. I think we should put into the record the
23 arrangement that we made before we began, and correct me if this
24 is not your understanding of the arrangement, that we are
25 testifying here today without placing you under oath because
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
1 6 0 0 2 000092
WARD
Phone (Arsa 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1 there is no Senator available for that purpose, but both you and
2 I are contemplating having a Senator swear you in and ask you if
3 your transcript is true to the best of your knowledge at some
4 point as soon as possible as it can be arranged after today's
5 session.
6 Mr. Halley. Yes. The statement that you have just made
7 is my understanding of the agreement that we entered into prior
8 to this conversation going on the record.
9 Mr. Baron. Thank you.
10 Let us begin then with some very broad questions :
11 about your background in the Agency. Can you tell me what you
12 were doing in the Agency prior to your involvement with the
13 JMWAVE station?
14 Mr. Halley. I became involved with the Cuban affair in
15 approximately February of 1962. At that time, I was in Head-
16 quarters. I was Chief of Foreign Intelligence Activities for the
17 Eastern European Division. I was asked to be released from those
18 duties to conduct a survey of the opportunities for running
19 intelligence operations against Cuba. I was released from those
20 duties; I did engage in a survey of the possibilities for running
21 intelligence, counterintelligence, paramilitary operations
22 against Cuba.
23 Mr. Baron. Your position as Chief of Foreign Intelligence
24 for Eastern Europe did not involve Cuba in any way? That was
25 your last position before you became involved in Cuban affairs,
TOP SECRET

HW

WARD & PAUL
1800200092
C
7
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
5
1 is that correct?
2 Mr. Halley. That is correct.
3 I want to qualify that. Undoubtedly, there were some
4 actions that were being conducted in the Eastern European area
5 that reflected on Cuba, but I was not involved in the Bay of Pigs
6 operation. I was not fully focused on Cuban operations until
7 approximately February of 1962.
8 Mr. Baron. At what point did you join the Agency?
9 Mr. Halley. I joined the Agency originally in 1951.
10 Mr. Baron. In a very general way, can you describe the
11 nature of your activities at the Agency prior to February of '62
12 Mr. Halley. When I was first assigned to the Agency, I was
13 an Army officer on active duty. I went through the usual Agency
14 training program. I was assigned to Eastern European activities
15 where I originally was focused on Polish and German operations.
16 I subsequently served from 1952 to 1959 in Germany. In the
17 course of that service, I spent most of my time working on the
18 Eastern European satellites, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
19 Romania, Bulgaria. In addition, I was involved on occasion in
20 Soviet operations and East German operations.
21 Mr. Baron. Did you have any involvement in Latin American
22 affairs prior to February of '62?
23 Mr. Halley. Yes. In the period 1960-62, I was responsible
24 for setting up operational activity in Latin America that
25 was targetted more explicitly on the Eastern European satellites
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
6
1 to some extent on the Soviet Union. This was in a period of time
2 where the Eastern European satellites were expanding their
3 presence in Latin America. In my duties in the Eastern European
:
5 Division, I was responsible for getting this program going in
Latin America, so I did have an extensive exposure to Latin
6 America: in the period '60 to '62, as I recall those dates.
7 The accuracy of those dates can be checked from my official
travel records, and so on.
8 ::
9 Mr. Baron. During that period of time you were actually
C
C
WARD & PAUL
7670 03
10 in Latin America helping to set up this program?
11 Mr. Halley. No, I was stationed in Washington, but I
12 travelled to Latin America during this particular period of
13 time.
14 Mr. Baron. Did you travel to Cuba at any point during the
15 course of that operation?
16 Mr. Halley. Not specifically. I think I transitted Cuba
17 on air stops being routed to various countries. I think I was
18 at one or two Cuban airfields, but simply in transit.
19 Mr. Baron. Not long enough even to talk to the people at
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
20 the Station in Cuba?
21 Mr. Halley. No, I had no contact at any time with the
22 Havana Station.
23 Mr. Baron. Did you pick up, during this period of time,
24 a general sense of the attitude of Latin American governments
25 toward the Castro government? Could you characterize that
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
C
WARD & PAUL
767 00 3

Phone (Arsa 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1
: attitude, if you did?
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
Mr. Halley. I certainly was aware, I think, of the broad
political trend in the Hemisphere at that time, my interest was
much more narrowly focused at that time on the Eastern European
targets, and on the Soviet target, and I was not certainly
specializing in Cuban affairs at that juncture.
Mr. Baron. Cuba was not viewed at that juncture as part of
the Soviet target, as a Soviet satellite?
Mr. Halley. No, it was not.
Mr. Baron. Coming then to February of '62, is that the
point at which you joined the JMWAVE Station in Miami?
Mr. Halley. No. When I first entered into this survey,
it was to do this on a TDY basis, temporary duty assignment,
to complete a report on my findings, to report those at that
particular juncture to Mr. Harvey who was the head of the Task
Force that was attempting to expand intelligence coverage of
Cuba and I was not assigned to the station at that particular
point in time.
Mr. Baron. At what point did you join the JMWAVE Station?
Mr. Halley. Shortly after having completed this survey.
These dates are blurred now because the survey soon turned into
a permanent assignment. I would have to check the exact dates
from my service records, but after having completed the survey
report, shortly thereafter I was asked to go to Miami to become
permanently assigned to the station in Miami. I do not recall
TOP SECRET
7.

WARD & PAUL
76 700 35
Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1 the exact date at which that permanent change of station took
2 place.
3 Mr. Baron. Would you assume that that was sometime before
4 the end of May of '62?
5 Mr. Halley. Yes. It was probably before that, but as I
6 say, there are a couple of weeks gap that we would have to look
7 at my service record to get the exact dates, but certainly it
8 could have been March, it could have been April: But I reserve,
9 you know, the right to check my record if that is a critical
10 point in terms of what you are trying to establish.
11 Mr. Baron. Certainly.
12 I should say generally at this point, if anything we cover
13 today gives you that kind of problem it would be immensely
14 helpful to us if you would check your answers against documents
15 that might be available in the CIA.
16 Mr. Halley. Yes, all right.
17 Mr. Baron. In fact, let me ask you if you would check that
18 one out, because it would be useful to know exactly when you
19 joined the JMWAVE station.
20 During the period of time before you joined JMWAVE, while
21 you were conducting the survey, did you report to anyone other
22 than William Harvey?
23 Mr. Halley. In a formal sense, this TDY was conducted on
24 behalf of the task force commander, who was Mr. Harvey. While
25 I was in Miami conducting the survey, I obviously discussed
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
TOP SECRET
8

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
9
1 matters pertaining to that survey to the team who was then in
2 charge of the operational activity in Miami. That team was
3 essentially headed by Mr. Al Cox, who has since died.
4 Mr. Baron. Was that team the equivalent of JMWAVE station?
5 Mr. Halley. Yes. Mr. Cox was the head, then, of what would
6 be the equivalent of the JMWAVE Station.
7 Mr. Baron. Was he the head of JMWAVE until the wint when
8 you replaced him, or until the point you became Chief of the
9 JMWAVE Station?
10 Mr. Halley. That is correct. He was the head of that
11 unit until such time as I replaced him.
12
WARD & PAUL
7 6 6 3 0 0 17 ה ה ה

410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
13 Mr. Baron. Were you aware during this survey that you
14 were conducting of any link between Task Force Wand the so-called
15 Special Group in the White House which was part of the National
16 Security Council structure and used the project namer! MONGOOSE
17 for anti-Cuban operations?
18 Mr. Halley. My understanding at the time that I conducted
19 this survey was that there was a three-man group in existence
20 which was headed by Mr. Robert Kennedy that was conducting a
21 Cuba. The other members of that particular group were General
22 Lansdale and Mr. Helms.
23 This three-man group had subordinate to it for all practical
24 purposes the task force unit which was managed by Mr. Harvey.
25 I am not familiar, however, with the other terminology that you
TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
10
1 used, that is Project MONGOOSE, or whatever you said. I do not
2 know the exact words you used. I am not familiar with that
3 terminology.
4 Mr Baron.During the whole period of your involvement
5 with JMWAVE, you were not made aware of Project MONGOOSE as
6 such?
7 Mr. Halley. I am not aware of Project MONGOOSE. I do not
8 recall it as an acronym, cryptonym or anything else that was in
9 common usage in my conversations.
10 Also, you have to understand that during that particular
11 time, Mr. Harvey was subordinate to the normal Agency chain of
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
12 command. In other words, he had parallel lines, if you wil1.
13 There was this three-man Task Force to whom he was reporting
14 regularly. At the same time, as the Task Force Commander, he
15 was reporting to the then-DDP who was Mr. Helms.
16 Mr Baron. You began your survey just about the time that
17 Mr. Helms replaced Mr. Bissell as DDP?
18 Mr. Halley. That is right.
19 Mr. Baron. Were you aware of the command relationship
20 between the three-man group that you have mentioned and William
21 Harvey as head of Task Force W? Did that group task Harvey
22 directly, or did Harvey's assignments have to come through Helms
23 and through the DCI as opposed to this group that did not include
24 the DCI?
25 Mr. Halley. My understanding of it at the time was we were
TOP SECRET

1 0 0 0 2009 2
WARD & PAUL
C
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
11
1 really talking about parallel lines. In other words, this
2 three-man group was meeting. Mr. Helms was both a member of
3 that particular group and the DDP. Therefore, when he came back
8
9
10
11
12
13
4 from one of these meetings and issued instructions to Mr. Harvey
5 it was, you know, tantamount to these things coming through two
6 channels simultaneously, one coming from this three-man task
7 force and the other instruction simultaneously coming from Mr.
Helms who was the DDP.
Mr. Baron. As far as Mr. Harvey was concerned, an assign-
ment or order from Richard Helms was an order to be taken at
face value? Harvey did not have to question whether it had the
stamp of approval from the DCI or not? Would that have been
your operating understanding?

14 Mr. Halley. That would have been my understanding, yes.
15 Certainly an instruction received from Mr. Helms was a valid
16 Agency instruction.
17 Mr. Baron. The DCI at this point was John McCone.
18 Mr. Hallay. That is correct.
19 Mr. Baron. Do you have any knowledge of the relationship
20 between this three-man group and John McCone at that point?
21 Mr. Halley. Not on a day to day basis. Once I went to
22 Miami, I came back on a regular basis to review operational
23 plans and programs. On one occasion I accompanied Mr. McCone
24 to the White House to give a presentation or sit in while the
25 presentation was being made.
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
12
1 Mr. Baron. Where was this? What was the forum in which
2 the presentation was made.
3 Mr. Halley. This was a meeting with President Kennedy and
4 other members of the then-Cabinet were present at that particular
5 meeting.
6 Mr. Baron. Was that a Cabinet meeting or was it a Special
7 Group meeting as a sub-unit of the National Security Council?
8 Mr. Halley. You know, that happened in 1962. This is
9 1975. I do not recall then with precision as to whether it was
10 a meeting of the Cabinet or whether it was a meeting of the
11 National Security Council, or whether it was a meeting of the
12 Special Group.
13 Mr. Baron. That: is perfectly understandable. Do you recall
14 which Cabinet members were present at that meeting?
15 Mr. Halley. Yes. My recollection of that was that Mr.
16 McNamara was present, Mr. Rusk was present, Mr. Kennedy, the
17 Attorney General, was present. You know, I am just vague now
18 at this particular point. Those are the ones that stick out in
19 my memory as being present.
20 Mr. Baron. Was the DCI present?
21 Mr. Halley. Yes, the DCI was present, and he gave a
portion of the presentation.
22 As I recall, Mr. FitzGerald gave
23 the other portion of the presentation.
24 Mr. Baron. Who at that point replaced William Harvey as
25 Chief of Task Force W?
TOP SECRET

760070090
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
Mr. Halley. Right. You know, the chronology of the Chiefs
13
2 of our Task Force were that it was Harvey, then FitzGerald,
3 then Screber, after that, Hart. I served with all four of those
4 This was a very active period, you know, with precision, I cannot
5 outline for you today the dates when Harvey left and FitzGerald
6 took over, you know, when FitzGerald left and Screber took over
:
7 and so forth. This is something that I would have to research
8 to give you the precise dates.
9 Mr. Baron. What was the substance of this meeting that
10 they had in which the President was present?
11 Mr. Halley. This was a general review of activities that
12 were being conducted against Cuba.
13 Mr. Baron. Was there any mention of any assassination
14 effort at that meeting?
15 Mr. Halley. No, there was not.
16 Mr. Baron. You were attending at that point in connection
17 with the survey you conducted?
18 Mr. Halley. No. I was attending at that point as the
19 Station Chief from Miami in order to make a contribution to the
20 issues that were being discussed, to the fact that detailed,
21 substantive back-up for whatever questions might be put to the
22 Agency spokesmen. I made reference to that because you asked
23 me if I knew the relationship between Mr. McCone and this
24 three-man group. I said no, on a day-to-day basis I did not
25 know the relationship, but that there were meetings that were
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
14
1 attended by me in which Mr. McCone was talking to individuals
2 like Mr. Kennedy, the Attorney General, who was a member of that
3 group.
4 Mr. Baron. Were you aware that that group might have gone
5 by any particular name or designation?
6 Mr. Halley. No, I am not.,
7 Mr. Baron. You are not familiar with the term Special
8 Group?
9 Mr. Halley. Yes, I am aware of the term Special Group.
10 I am aware that the chronology of the 303 Committee, Special
11 Group, 40. Committee and so forth, but as I mentioned to you
12 earlier, that particular time, I cannot distinguish between
13 whether this was an ad hoc meeting or this was a Special Group
14 meeting, or what it was.
15 Mr. Baron. Did you assume at that time that the three-man
16 group that you referred to, including the Attorney General,
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
17 General Lansdale and Richard Helms, had a formal relationship
18 to this larger Special Group? In other words, was that three-
19 man group a kind of decision-making sub-unit of the Special
20 Group, or do you think it operated entirely independent from
21 the National Security Council structure.
22 Mr. Halley. I do not think I can give you an authoritative
23 answer to that. I would go back to what I previously told
24 you. When I entered into this project in February of '62, the
25 chain of command that. I was familiar with was this three-man
TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
15
1 group in constant contact with Mr. Harvey. The second chain
2 of command, paralleling that, was Mr. Harvey reporting to the
3 DDP and the DDP subsequently reporting through his chain of
4 command to the Director, and that would be the only way that
5 I could characterize that with any accuracy.
6 Mr. Baron. Did those two chains of command continue
7 as the channels of decision-making and tasking when you were
8 or during your tenure as Chief of Station at JMWAVE?
9 Mr. Halley. That relationship changed, and again I do
10 not have the date at my fingertips at what time that changed.
11 I know that shortly thereafter I was in Miami, General
12 Lansdale came down to visit me, to talk with me, about the
13 progress that was being made in the operational program. At
410 First Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003
14 some point after that, this three-man group for all intents
15 and purposes disappeared. General Lansdale was reassigned;
16 the group broke up; subsequent reviews of the program were made
17 at the Special Group level. As an example, we would have to
18 submit every month the number of operations that we were going
19 to run, such as infiltrations into Cuba through what would be
20 paramilitary means, and these were approved by the Special
21 Group. There was an approval procedure for setting those up,
22 so subsequently the three-man group disappeared and the regular
23 mechanism of the Special Group came into play.
24 I am sorry, I cannot give you a precise date for that
25 change, but I am sure it is in the record and I am sure you even
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Arsa 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1 have the date because the Agency has been researching all sorts
2 of material for you. I feel that you would just have to get
3 those dates for the record.
4 Mr. Baron. We can do that.
5 Would you say that every major operation that you undertook
C
76 Πωλού 7 0 0 0 3
6 at JMWAVE would have been approved by the Special Group or at
7 least they would have been put on notice of the nature of any
8 major operation that you were planning?
9 Mr. Halley. Why do you not define for me what you consider
10 to be a major operation so we do not get into, you know, a
11 problem? If you feel that you cannot.do 'that
12 Mr. Baron. Perhaps we can turn it around and say, could
13 you characterize the kinds of operations generally that you
14 would refer to this three-man group initially, to in the Special
15 Group later, for their approval, or at least to put them on
16 notice,.. the kinds that you might not refer and instead proceed
17 unilaterally?
18 Mr. Halley. Initially, the three-man group was seized
19 with the problem of conducting the survey of what could be
20 done against Cuba. As soon as that was more or less agreed
21 upon, my understanding of this, as I told you, the three-man
22 group was disbanded or atrophied or went on to other things
23 and then the formal mechanism came in for approval, that is,
24 the Special Group. As procedures. became more formalized, we
25 had to submit a monthly schedule of the kind of operations that
TOP SECRET
16

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1 would be conducted against Cuba in the paramilitary fields.
2 In other words, if we were going to run an operation that
3 was going to be a cache replacement in the Cuban mainland, that
4 had to be put in, say in our October schedule, that October
5 schedule had to be submitted to the Washington Headquarters so
2000 2009 2
WARD & PAUL
C
6 they could make it available to the Special Group sometime in
7 September. So I would regard a cache, say the lowest kind of
8 operation in terms of sensitivity, and then you could move up
9 from team infiltrations that had to be approved in advance,
10 resupply missions, paramiltary operations against fixed instal-
11 lations would all be approved.
12 Mr. Baron. If there had been any operation with the
13 assassination of Fidel Castro, or other high Cuban government
14 leaders as its objective, would such an operation have been
15 referred to either the three-man group or later the Special
16 Group.
17 Mr. Halley. If such an operation had been proposed from
18 Miami, it would have had to have gone through that particular
19 process.
20 Mr. Baron. Your answer seems to indicate that only
21 operations that originated at the JMWAVE Station would be
22 referred up for approval. Is that correct?
23 Mr. Halley. That is the kind of activity that I have
24 firsthand knowledge of. When I became the Station Chief, I told
25 you my time at this was essentially February of 1962 through
TOP SECRET
17

WARD PAUL
960020000092
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Arsa 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1 either June or July of '65. That was my stewardship
2 my involvement in the Cuban operation.
18
That was
3 During that particular period of time, my firsthand knowledge
4 of these events would be, if that kind of operation were to go
5 forward it would have had to go through this approval mechanism,
6 it would have had to have been some formal action taken. If it
for some reason might not
7 were something that certainly would
--
8 be committed to paper, somebody may have wanted to discuss it
9 orally from Miami, the chain of command would have been from me
10 to whomever was the head of the Task Force in Washington, or
11 later, when the Task Force became reintegrated into the Western
12 Hemisphere Division, I would have had to talk to the Chief of
13 the Western Hemisphere Division, who at one time was FitzGerald.
14 Mr. Baron. But a plan that originated at the CIA above
15 the level of the Chief of Station at JMWAVE would not necessarily
16 have been referred to Special Group for approval, is that
17 correct?
18 Mr. Halley. I have no firsthand knowledge of that, thera-
19 fore I am.trying to restrict myself to those things that I have
20 Personal knowledge of. In other words, that is the kind of
21 thing that I think you should talk to, you know, those who were
22 involved directly, because I think you can talk to Mr. Harvey
23 or Mr. Screber or others who would be able to give you a better
24 perception of that.
25 I want to make one point here, that once I want to Miami,
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
1 I was a regular visitor to Washington, but always for one or
2 two days at a time when there was always a full agenda of events
3 to be discussed that related to the Station in Miami. I did not
4 carry here, I did not engage, you know, in idle conversation with
5 my associates. Therefore, I was not aware of the firsthand
6 situation of how they conducted business on a sustained basis
7 on items that did not immediately impact on Miami.
8 Mr. Baron. Do you have any personal knowledge of any
9 operation run out of the JMWAVE Station that could be construed
10 as an assassination effort?
11 Mr. Halley. No, I do not.
2
12 Mr. Baron. Do you have firsthand knowledge of any operation
13 run out of Florida with CIA involvement that could be construed
14 as an assassination effort?
15 Mr. Halley. No, I do not have any firsthand knowledge.
16 You also have to put this in a historical perspective. In
17 other words, from what I have