157-10005-10250
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Date: 10/05/93
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10005-10250
RECORDS SERIES :
Rtd 3/16/94

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R654

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM ::
TO :
TITLE:
TRANSCRIPT/RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS/EXHIBITS

DATE: 06/25/75
PAGES: 61

SUBJECTS:
PAGES 8-68 OF TESTIMONY BY SARNO, ALFRED J.

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION.: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/05/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

BOX 258-11
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RES
NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 1

TOP SECRET

Vol. 3 of 1
Cuba
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject
to Criminal Sanctions

The United States Senate
R654
INVENTORIED:

Report of Proceedings
DN
5/25/77
ar

SSCI DOY
258-11

MINORITY DRAWE

AL
ITIES

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
16 MAR 94
(1)(A)
(1)(B)
Friday, June 25, 1975

Washington, D. C

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 2

TOP SECRET
A
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
CONTENTS
1
2 TESTIMONY OF
PAGE
3
Alfred J. Sarno
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 3
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
6
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
6
1
for AMUTS?
2
Mr. Sarno. I think from December, 1961 or January, 1962
3
to September, 1967. Then from June
-
August, 1968 to
4
September, 1969.
5
Mr. Wides. Now let me go back, and can you give us a
6
very brief summary of your positions with the Agency prior to
7
that? I don't mean detailed as to what you were doing.
8
Mr. Sarno. I joined the Agency in September of 1951.
9
Mr. Wides. Yes?
10
Mr. Sarno. I was assigned to three countries before I
11
hit Florida.
12
Mr. Wides. All in the Western Hemisphere Division?
13
Mr. Sarno. All in the Western Hemisphere.
14
Mr. Wides. So you had rather long stations in each of
15
those, three or four years?
16
Mr. Sarno. (Nods in the affirmative)
17
Mr. DeMarco. When did you become an American citizen?
18
Mr. Sarno. I was born in Ohio.
19
Mr. DeMarco. Had you been stationed with Mr. Phillips
20
in Cuba before you came to Miami, or were you in Cuba before
21
you came to Miami?
22
Mr. Sarno. Yes.
23
Mr. Wides. And that is when Mr Noel was the Chief?
24
Mr. Sarno. Jim Noel was the Chief.
25
Mr. Wides. And you had contact with Mr. Phillips then?
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 4
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
10

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
Mr. Wides. You never heard of any plots, nor of any
1
2 arrested people attempting to shoot a bazooka when he was
3 giving a speech at Havana Stadium?
4
Mr. Sarno. No, sir.
5
Mr. Wides. Let me go to the period when you went to
6 Florida.
When you first came here, that was before Station Chief
7 Noel had moved the whole station to Miami?
8
Mr. Sarno. Noel wasn't there. When I arrived in Florida,
9
Noel, was not then - no, sir, he was not the station chief.
10
Mr. Wides. Who was the station chief?
11
Mr. Sarno. I don't think I should give you his name.
12
I don't know. You have the rest of all of them, but I can't
13
recall
14
I can state that there were two station chiefs between
15
Noel and Shackley, three of them, in fact.
16
Mr. Wides. Shackley came in when, 1963?
17
Mr. Sarno. '62.
18
Mr. Wides. When in '62?
19
Mr. Sarno. I think the spring of '62 is when it was.
20
Mr. Wides. When was he replaced by Mr. Dimmer?
21
Mr. Sarno. If I am not mistaken, it was in '64, I think.
22
June, July, I think, something like that, of '64.
23
Mr. Wides. And then Mr. Dimmer was replaced in '66 by
24
Mr. Hines, Paul Hines?
25
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 5
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
11
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
Mr. Sarno. Hines
1
2
Mr. Wides. And then Mr. Esterline replaced Mr. Hines,
3
or was there someone between?
4
Mr. Sarno. Mr. Esterline did not replace Mr. Hines
5
Nobody replaced Times, because they closed up the station.
6
Mr. Wides. We understand that the station was operating
7
very recently.
8
Mr. Sarno. Well, I'm not saying you see, the station
9
you spoke to before, you spoke of, went out of business in
10
June of 1960 when Mr. Nimes left.
11
Mr. Wides. I see.
12
13
Now, what was the relationship between yourself and the
station? Administratively, and in terms of reporting, when
14
you first went down there.
15
16
Mr. Sarno. When I first went down there, I was outside.
I believe it was concerning clearances to get me into the
17
station, because I had never been working in a station before,
18
so there were special clearances. So at that time, those two
19
20
months you're speaking of, I attended a course and I may have
been sent out once or twice to interview a Cuban refugee or
21
one of our agents who had left Cuba.
22
Mr. Wides. And then you set up the AMUTS program? Did
23
you start that project, or was that started when you came in?
24
Mr. Sarno. It had been started, the nucleus had been
25
formed at that time.
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 6
TAD SECDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
13
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
Mr. Wides. And except where there's a question of an
1
2
3
agent under cover who would be possibly exposed to harm or
that kind of thing in regard to the mention of other Agency
4
5
6
people, certainly at the level of Mr. Shackley or other
officials, Mr. Dimmer, and so forth, that the general procedures
have been that people at the Agency or retirees have not
7
refused to disclose names.
8
Now, you certainly have your rights --
9
Mr. Sarno. No, sir. I am not questioning you, or anything,
10
except I've been in this business a long time and I've never
11
mentioned anybody's name. Now if somebody were to tell me,
12
if Seymour Bolton were to tell me that I could tell you all the
13
names of all my supervisors and everything, it's perfectly all
14
right. But I've never mentioned a name and I feel that I
15
shouldn't mention a name.
16
Mr. Wides. Well, we may have to take a break and do that,
17
but let me go on.
18
19
With regard to the AMUTS program, the AMUTS Cubans were
not contract agents of the station, is that correct?
20.
Mr. Sarno. No, sir.
21
Mr. Wides. They were proprietary employees essentially of
22
LASER, essentially?
23
Mr. Sarno. LASER was a group that proprietary was
24
set up in September of 1968. Prior to that time they ware a
25
bunch of Cubans just living down in Miami.
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 7
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
14
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
Mr. Wides. And what was their relationship to the Agency
2
through you?
3
Mr. Sarno.
They were a group of Cuban exiles who were
4
being funded to collect information, intelligence information,
5
on Cuba.
6
Mr. Wides.. They were paid agents?
7
Mr. Sarno. They were paid agents.
8
Mr. Wides. Some of them received a fairly sophisticated
9
training in tradecraft, in some cases communications intercept
10
operations with regard to a station in Florida, and so forth,
11
is that not correct?
12
Mr. Sarno. Sophisticated equipment, yes, sir.
13
Mr. Wides. And tradecraft, general tradecraft training?
14
Mr. Sarno. General tradecraft training, yes, sir.
15
Communications.training - well, most of them weren't
16
communicators, so they required very little if they did
:
17
receive training.
18
Mr. Wides. Would that put them in a little bit more
19
official status of some sort, whatever the category is called,
20
than simply being a paid informant?
21
Mr. Sarno. No, sir. They were just like paid informants!
22
except we provided them funds to operate with.
23
They are no more
they are not contract, we did not
24
have then under contract.
25
Mr. Wides. But they would still get training?
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 8
TOP SECDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
15.
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.
2
Mr. Wides. And the program first operated where? Where
3
did you physically locate? Were you at the University of
4
Miami, at the Naval Air Station at the begining?
5
Mr. Sarno. No, sir.
6
Mr. Wides. Where were you at first?
7
Mr. Sarno. Are you speaking of our station? Our station
8
was physically at the Air Station, but these Cubans did not
9
know where the station was.
10
Mr. Wides. And you just contacted them separately?
11
Mr. Sarno. They had houses that they rented and they worked
12
out of different houses, and there were many of them, so I
13
can't recall them.
14
Mr. Wides. Did you have an office facility apart from the
15
station?
16
Mr. Sarno. Myself?
17
Mr. Wides. Yes.
18
Mr. Sarno. On one occasion, for a very short period, I
19
had an office.
20.
Mr. Wides. Where was the Zenith Corporation?
21
Mr. Sarno. The Zenith Corporation was located on the
22
south campus of Miami.
23
Mr. Wides. Apart from the station?
24
Mr. Sarno. No, sir.
25
Mr. Wides. That was a cover?
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 9
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
16
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
Mr. Sarno. That was the station.
1
2
Mr. Wides. And what was the mission and purpose of
3
AMUTS when you first started out, as indicated in the project
4
outline?
5
Mr. Sarno. They were to collect intelligence on Cuba,
6
debrief refugees and provide bodies for any possible operations
7
required by the station.
8
Mr. Wides. They were to debrief refugees?
9
Mr. Sarno. Debrief refugees, collect and evaluate, maintain
10
records.
11
Mr. Wides. Was there a division of the AMUTS members into
12
two groups, with only a small group involving the debriefing
13
of Cuban refugees?
14
Mr. Sarno. Well, it wasn't too small a group, but if you
15
would speak of the whole organization overall, yes, it was a
16
small group.
17
Mr. Wides. And at what point did you set up any cover
18
apart from the station as a proprietary or notional company
19
in between the AMUTS people and the Miami station? In other
20
21
words, were the companies prior to the Latin America Social
and economic research company that preceeded it, in time?
22
Mr. Sarno. In the time that I handled them, which is
23
up to the LASER I think there were three, three covers all
24
25
told, or perhaps four. I think we had our debriefing, you
know, under one cover.
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 10
TOD SECDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
17
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
Mr. Wides. That was from the start? You had a separate
2
cover for the debriefing?
3
Mr. Sarno. Well, from the start we didn't have a place
4
for them, and it wasn't pulled together as a debriefing unit.
5
6
When a large flow of refugees started to come in is when we set
up the special unit.
7
Mr. Wides. When was that?
8
Mr. Sarno. Well, they cut off
9
Mr. Wides. '64, '63?
10
Mr. Sarno. It could have been '62, late '62 or '63. And
11
before, we used to send our debriefers, they were within the
12
AMUTS group, specialists in debriefing, area specialists is
13
14
the kind we used. And we would go out to the reception center
and check around and see who had come out of the particular
15
area.
16
Mr. Wides. At Opa-Locka?
17
Mr. Sarno. At Opa-Locka.
18
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19
20.
And our debriefers would go out and check around with the
people who came in and try to spot somebody who would be.
interesting to interview, debrief, concerning the particular
21
area. And so they usually picked them up in a car and either
22
23
took them to a restaurant or took them to a motel or something
and would debrief them. And then we found that it would be
24
25
better to get a building for them to be in where we located
them altogether, where they could prepare their reports and
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 11
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
18
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 everything.
2
Mr. Wides. And so that's when you first set up the
3 proprietary for the smaller debriefing component of AMUTS?
4
Mr. Sarno. Well, I set up the proprietaries, the notionary
5 company for a small debriefing office, and at the same time,
6
we rented a building, a larger building, and they used to
7 operate in Coral Gables, received some publicity and we moved
8
them out of Coral Gables to near the airport in a building where
9 the main office was, where this main office was, where these
10 reports from the debriefers or any other information was
11 collected would be processed, typed in finished form, translated
12 and provided to us.
13 Mr. Wides. About how many people did you have in AMUTS
14 Cubans at that time?
15
Mr. Sarno. Well, that's difficult to say.
16
Mr. Wides. 150? Would you say 150?
17
Mr. Sarno. I would say inside, outside, it could be
18
close to 150.
19 Mr. Wides. Did you have more than a dozen or so working
20 in the component on debriefing?
21
Mr. Sarno. As I recall, at one time -- as I recall it,
22
we had about 22, 23 people working in debriefing.
23
Mr. Wides. And apart from those Cubans, you had a staff
24
under you of assistants and secretaries who were Agency
25 assigned personnel?
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 12
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
19
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 Mr. Sarno. Yes.
2
Mr. Wides. What kind of staff did you have?
3
Mr. Sarno. Well, it started off originally since we
4
weren't big, I started off with one secretary, and it eventually
5
ended up that there were one or two Intel assistants -
6
Mr. Wides. These were Agency personnel?
7
Mr. Sarno. Agency personnel.
8 --and two or three case officers.
9
Mr. Wides. The case officers handled segments of the
10 AMUTS?
11
Mr. Sarno. Segments of the AMUTS
12
Mr. Wides. Now, the other, speaking very roughly, hundred
13
and fifty or so AMUTS Cubans, you said some twenty were
14 involved when the debriefing program intensified. What were
15 the other hundred-odd Cubans involved in?
16 Mr. Sarno. Well, we had records personnel, we had
17 I would say six or seven who only worked in records and main-
18 taining of files, and general index cards, and that was it.
19 Then we had what we called our reports section which may have
20
had about fifteen people, twenty people, who wrote reports,
21 checked them out, cross-referenced, and everything else that
22 was involved in that.
23 Mr. Wides. What kind of reports did they write? What
24 were they writing reports about?
25
Mr. Sarno. Economic whatever they were learning from
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 13
TOD SECDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
21

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 against Cuba, and had weapons they weren't supposed to have.
2
Mr. Wides. Like Alpha-66?
3
Mr. Sarno. Alpha-66, there were many of them.
4
And we usually had one of our outside types, either
5 recruit or get next to an individual of the group and he would
6 penetrate the group himself to report to us what they were
7 doing.
8
Mr. Wides. Do you recall the flights of the Diaz, or one
9
of the Diz brothers, over Havana dropping leaflets?
10
Mr. Sarno. What date was it?
11
Mr. Wides. I believe it was quite early, and it was not
12 in connection with the AMUTS
13
Mr. Sarno. I know the Diaz brothers.
14
Mr. Wides. Do you recall hearing of flights with one
15 of them with Frank Sturgis over Havana dropping leaflets?
16
Mr. Sarno. No, sir.
17
Mr. Wides. It was fairly widely known.
18
Mr. Sarno. Well, I didn't get into Cubans until maybe
19
it was June of '60, but the only leaflets I ever saw fly over
20. Cuba was the day before the invasion. Those were the only
21 ones I saw.
22 Mr. Wides. When you were in Miami, did you have any
23
contact with Frank Sturgis, Frank Fiorini?
24
Mr. Sarno. Never, never. To my knowledge, he never worked
25 for us.
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 14
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
22
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
Mr. Wides. Not getting back to the bulk of the AMUTS
2 group, apart from the reporting on refugees and the efforts
3
to keep tabs, which I guess is a summary of what you are
4 saying on what exile groups might be doing that the government
5 might otherwise not know about, is it correct that there was
6
surveillance of the Miami community generally with regard to
7 possible Castro agents?
8 Mr. Sarno. Not that I know of.
9
Mr. Wides. There was no counterintelligence program in
10 the AMUTS?
11
Mr. Sarno. We had a counterintelligence component in the
12
AMUTS Program.
13
Mr. Wides. Why don't you describe that?
14
Mr. Sarno. The counterintelligence program consisted of
15 very capable Cubans who knew of the former the set-up of
16 the intelligence agency inside of Cuba, so if anybody ware to
17
come out, any refugee were to come out and name an individual
18
19
20
21
that was a friend of theirs that we knew or suspected of
working for the internal security which was the DSE or their
external service, the DGI, our counterintelligence group or
one of the individuals would go out and debrief the fellow
22 and collect names, and prepare reports on it, and they maintained
23 files, and that is what it is.
24
They never got under a surveillance of any of them, because
25 once a report was written they suspected somebody. They maintaine
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 15
TOD SECDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
23
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
a file of them, and when Cuban refugees would come in, they
1
2 would receive lists of, names to check in their files, and if
3
they suspected one, then they would gather all of the
4 information possible on this individual, prepare a report,
5 name their sources, and they would pass it to the station.
6 The station in turn would prepare a memorandum and send it to
7 the bureau.
8 Mr. Wides. Is it your sworn testimony that you never knew
9
10
of any surveillances or efforts to penetrate groups for
counterintelligence purposes by Cubans under your supervision?
11
Mr. Sarno. No, sir, no. You're speaking of penetrating
12 groups, yes. They penetrated groups. Surveillance - I never
13
sent them out on a mission to surveil anybody concerning whether
14
they were suspect or whatever.
15
Mr. Wides. Was there any surveillance of Cubans in Miami
16 conducted by whether it was in cooperation with the Bureau
17
conducted by any of the AMUTS Cubans that you were
or not
18
aware of?
19
Mr. Sarno. I cannot recall if there ever was.
20.
Mr. Wides. I don't mean a specific one.
21
Mr. Sarno. I don't recall ever giving them any assignments.
22
Mr. Wides. I'm not talking about assignments, I'm
23
talking about whether you're aware of their conducting
24
Mr. Sarno. As I say, I do not recall them conducting
25 any surveillance on anybody.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 16
TOD SECDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
24
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
Mr. Wides. Any telephone taps?
2
Mr. Sarno. Never any telephone taps, we didn't have
3 telephone tap capability.
4 Mr. Wides. Any photography?
5 Mr. Sarno. We had a photographer.
6
Mr. Wides. When was he used? In what circumstances?
7
Mr. Sarno. Well, the biggest majority of his work was
8
to copy certain documents.
9 Mr. Wides. I mean photographic surveillance.
10
Mr. Sarno. There may have been. I really can't state
11
which one he was used on if he was ever used for photographic
12 surveillance.
13
Mr. Wides. Which what he was used on?
14
Mr. Sarno. I mean if he was used on photographic
15 surveillance. I don't recall ever ordering him out on photo-
16 graphic surveillance.
17
Mr. Wides. Do you recall if there ever was any photo-
18 graphic surveillance carried out by any of the AMUTS?
19
Mr. Sarno. I have no recollection. I do not recall.
20.
Mr. Wides. Were you getting reports of any sort, whether
21
22
23
you would characterize it as surveillance or not, on people
who had already come and were in Miami as distinct from the
interview reports when the refugees first came?
24
Isn't it correct that the AMUTS personnel were providing
25 you with reports on Cubans who were already in Miami?
NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 17
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
25
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.
2 Mr. Wides. Would you describe that program?
3 Mr. Sarno. Certainly. As I said, they penetrated these
4
groups, they would go around and then they would sit and talk
5
and as you would call it, the surveillance, the fact that they
6
penetrated, they would sit at the table and report on the
7
individual and what the individual said and what they were
8
planning. We call it penetration.
9
To me, surveillance is to put two men on the street
10 following somebody from one place to another.
11 Mr. Wides. Were there ever occasions when the station
12 was suspicious as to whether Cubans in Miami might be Castro
13 agents that you were aware of?
14 Mr. Sarno. Many.
15
Mr. Wides. Did they ever ask for any assistance in the
16 AMUTS group in trying to keep tabs on those individuals or
17 to test their suspicions?
18
Mr. Sarno. No, sir.
19
Mr. Wides. Who would do that?
20
Mr. Sarno. It would be the CI section of the station.
21
Mr. Wides. You don't recall any situation in which -
22
Mr Sarno. In which URS participated? No, sir.
23 Mr. Wides. - working with the FBI.
24
Mr. Sarno. The FBI occasionally would ask for the
25 services of one of the MUTS, but it was mainly not to surveil
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 18
TOD SECDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
2.6
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
anybody. It was to provide information to them because their
1
2
name would come up somewhere in a case.
3
Mr. Wides. What kind of assistance? You mean more than
4
just a chance to interview them?
5
Mr. Sarno. No, just interview. They never used them to
6
run a man on the street or anything like that, no, sir.
7
They tried to get one individual one time and they didn't know
8 that he worked for us and they tried to hire him and he came
9
back and reported it. We had to advise them that he was
10 already working for us.
11
Mr. Wides. And you had 115 men and all---
12
Mr. Sarno. There were women also, sir.
13
Mr. Wides. And women, and all they were doing was
14
interviewing refugees and writing reports on exile potential
15
activities against Cuba?
16
Mr. Sarno. I would say that was the biggest majority of
17
their job.
18
Mr. Wides. What was the rest of it?
19
Mr. Sarno. They also went out, if our station was going
20 to run an operation and they needed X amount of bodies, certain
21 specialized personnel, the MUTS would go and locate the
22
personnel, talk to them, spot them, get their personal history
23
from them, send it in, and the people would be traced out and
24 checked and cleared and eventually introduced to the station
25
case officer who would use them in our operations.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 19
TOD SESDET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
TOP SECRET
27
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 Mr. Wides. Who arranged for the training at the training
2
station at Parrott (?), was that used?
3
Mr. Sarno. For whom?
4
Mr. Wides. When the AMUTS people received training, some
5
various kind of tradecraft, who would arrange that, yourself?
6
Mr. Sarno. December, 1961 when I took it over there were
7 only three cases of MUTS who were sent away for special
8 training. Three cases, three individuals.
9 One came here to Washington, the other was going to be
10 loaned to a station overseas. He came up and received training.
11 The majority of the training given to the ANUTS was