157-10014-10242
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 7/7/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10242
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-147

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 00/00/1975
PAGES: 690
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
ORGANIZED CRIME
CIA
ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/31/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: CCBOX 441

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 1

AGENCY: SSCIA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 08/09/95
Page: 1

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10242
RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-147

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE
:
DATE: 00/00/75
PAGES:
690
SUBJECTS: ORGANIZED CRIME
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA
ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: CCBOX 441

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 2

NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 3
Ny Daily
SUNDAY NIS, AUG 1075

SECRETS OF THE CIA!!!
American Mata Hari Who Duped Castro

Marie Lorenz: spied on Fidel.

Its clandestine operations now undergoing someimes painful official
scrutiny, the Central Intelligence Agency maintains, as always, a tight lip. But
from interviews with the agents who carried out the CIA's clock-and-dagger
work, News reporter Paul Meskil tells here for the first time of the intrigue
that surfaced in the Cuban missile crisis, a confrontation that pushed the US
to the brink of war with the Soviet Union. First of a series.

BY PAUL MESKIL
A BEAUTIFUL German-American espionage agents, Caribbean conspira-
girl scored an intelligence coup for tors, and Cuban freedom fighters were
the CIA by stealing secret papers interviewed for this series, on CIA
from the Havana hotel suite the operations in the Caribbean and the
CIA attributed to Fidel Castro cloak-and-dagger tactics are being sold
here for the first time. The sources on Intelligence and Vice President Rockefeller's
committee on CIA Activities.
New were among the selected missile installations.
of reports quietly in New York, was
According to sources, the CIA was,
Darle Lorezen to creak known to the American
member of an espionage net-one the way or another, involved in:
who later became known to the American public as Watergate burgler Frank
State, Sturgis. State including, Castro of Cuba, Papa Doc
1.  To assassinate foreign heads
Ms. Lorenz, Sturgis, other former Duvalier of Haiti and Rafael Trujillo
of the Dominican Republic.
 Papa Dominal
1.  A CIA-sanctioned attempt to
invade Panama and sabotage the Panama Canal.
 The explosion of a munitions ship
in Havana harbor.

A fantastic scheme to seize a
Soviet ship and use it to obtain the
release of the captured American spy
ship Pueblo.
 Secret deals with American mob
sters who had lost their multi-million-
dollar Cuban gambling casinos.
 Armed raids on Cuba and many
shipments of guerrilla fighters, weap-
ons, explosives and other war materi-
als to the island before and after the
Day of Pigs fiasco.
 Marie Lerenz played a small but
important role in the labyrinth of
Caribbean conspiracies.

Box 441

NW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 4

(Continued from page 3)
lowered and the barbudos (bearded
... dashards like pirates, krow
nades dangling from their belts and
machine guns swinging from their
shoulders) and ran for cover with their dinner
women in evening gowns.
Jacketed husbandbelieving the ship
was being raided by bandits turist. Among other American
tourists, recognized the leader
"The shoute! obviously
enyrying the commotion in I had caused.
1 Like Americans
The Berlin's skipper, former German
Navy Capt. Heinrich Lorenz, inlagited
the barbudos to stay for cocktails and
dinner, and he introduced Qustro to his
vivacious 18-year-old daughter, Marie
"My father spoke Spanish and he
got along well with Castro." Marie told
this reporter. "He took Castro and his
men on a tour of the ship, then asked
them to please leave their guns of Side
Dining room before they sat hown
for of dinner

Castro said they didn't feel safe
without guns, so my father allowed
them to keep their pistols, but he iande
Them legve the machine guns, automat
ic' rifles and grenades in the smoking
lounge
Castro sat at the captain's table,
between Lorenz and Marie. During the
meal, he smiled frequently at Marie,
nad she was as impressed as any nor-
mal teenage girl would be by compli-
ments from, the flamboyant hero of the
Caban revolution
She spoke German and English,
which she had learned from her Ameri-
can mother. Castro said he needed a
secretary who could write lettera in
these languages. Before the meal was
over, he offered the job to Marie.

Took Offer As Joke
"He asked me to stay in Havana
and work for him," she said. "My fa-
ther and I both laughed. My father
said I was going back to Germany to
finish my education.
Castro pro
promised to write to her, 80
she gave him two addresses-her par-
ents home in Bremen, Germany, and
her brother's apartment in New York,
where she planned to stay when the
Caribbean cruise ended. She never ex-
pected to see or hear from Fidel again.
About two weeks later, two Cuban
officers called on Marie in New York.
They carried a message from Castro,
saying he was in desperate need of an
English-German translator. He had sent
a Cubana Airlines plane to bring her
back to Havana.
"I made a big mistake," Marie said.,
"I got on that plane."
During the flight to Havana, she
tried to imagine her life in Castroland.
She thought she wohlt have a deck in
the premier's seccrutial pool and a
staall apartment of her own. She may
even have dreamed of a romance with
the lull, chart afic dictator, luther
airborne illusions were shattered soon
after the plane landed.
"I was very Idealistic she
said. "I was going on an adventure and
to
to my first Jo I was going to help
the new goverit punt. Instead, I betame
Castro's play thi
"I was dris in from the airport to
the Havana Hilton, where Fidel had
taken over the 4th floor. For the next
four months, hardly ever got qt of
the Hilton. When I did get out, was,
Pind they crowded around him for.
Coffee shop, two barundus
auto-muler guard. I'd wanted to go down to
the pool or coffee
would go with me."

I Wat His Priloner
Asled to refine her relatio hip
with Castro dujing this period. Maria
said: "I want prisoner. I was Arap-
ped."
"Were youlover in love with
Fidel?"
"No; never. How can you be in love
when you're afraid, when you're treated
like a piece of furniture, when pou're,
sleeping with a live hazooka, unde the
hed, when you're living in a
guns on every table and cigar butik all
over the floor?"

"My way of thinking was gwas Gerijan,"
she conting
room
with
"Everything, in my life
had been orderly, very neat, and
estcial-
ly a prime minister, could be so disor-
canized. I thought he would have
clean never really any
I
several offices, with desks, chairs and
telephones. All he had, at this foint,
was B suite of rooms at the ton,
where he lived and worked. I was kept
in one of the rooms. The door to the
hall
locked from the outside.
Barbudos anul visitors were in thespext
rooln, but the door between the toms
was kept locked.

"All I could do was read loks,
study Spanish, walk back and forth,
hsten to the radio or go on the balcony
and look out over Havana. I was
miserable. My father tried to find out
what had happened to me. He contact-
ed the American Embassy in Havana
Marie was born un American citizen)
but nothing happened.
"The only clothes I had were what I
brought with me from New York. I
couldn't go out to buy anything. Fidel
had me measured for a uniform so 1
would look like a member of the 26th
of July Movement. An olive-green uni-
form with a lieutenant's star.
"That way, when I was allowed out
under guard, he thought people would
think I was of his officers. But
almost every Havana housewife heard
rumors that Castro was keeping a for-
eigner, an American girl, at the fiilton.
I was becoming a problem to him.
"One day two barbudos came to the
rooid while Fidel was out. They said
they were there to help me. They took
me on a 20-njinete Lane ride to the
whowed me the
beautiful black and bouch there and
then drove me hy jeep to this huge
prison complex. They showed me a cell
Discovery of missile
sitęs in Cuba provokod
a cold-war showdown
bolwaan tian Prezident
Jolin F. Kennedy and
thhon Soviat Premier
Nikita Khrushcliov, a
confrontation that had
the world holding
iis breath.
A chance meeting in Havana harbor aboard a cruise ship captained by her
fathor brought Marie Lorenz and Fidel Castro logother. It began a
liaison destined to have international repercussions.

where dictator Fulgencio Batista had
imprisoned Fidel and Raol (Fidel's
brother) years before. I went into the
rell to look at a bronze plaque on the
wall. They shut the door and locked me
in the coll. Then they went away.
She Wasn't Pampered
"I spent a week there, eating the
same food as the other prisoners
blacks beans, rice, stale bread and cof-
fee. As far as I know, I was the only
woman there.
"Every morning we would hear the
firing squads. As soon as it got light,
the birds would start singing. Then the
guns would go off. Then marching and
quiet. Then breakfast and cell checks.
The guards would check to see if you'd
hanged yourself during the night or if
you'd done something wro wrong in there
where there was hardly room to turn
around. It was hourible.
"After seven days, I was taken out
and flown back to Havana."
Mevin was never told why she was
jailed. She now believes Castro had her
locked up to make sure she didn't es-
cape while he was out of the count v
visiting the United States and South
Anterica.
One night she was with Castro, and
his bodyguards 111 the lobby of the
Riviera Hotel when a handsome, wav-
haared man aproached her. He wore
the olive-green rehel uniform and the
msignia of a captain m the Cuban Bir
force.
While Castro was conferring with
his sides on the other side of the
lobby, the captain mingled with the
barbudos around Marie and whispered
to her in English: "I know about you."
"Can you help me?" she responded.
"can you get me out of here?"
"Yes. I'm with the American
Embassy. I'll get you out."
This was her introduction to Com-
mandante Frank Fiorini (later known
as Frank Sturgis), Castro confidant
and hired agent for the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency.

Agrees to Spy on Fidel
For the next few weeks Frank kept
in contact with her in person and
through Castro officers who were
working for him. Marie agreed to spy
on Castro. She filched secret documenta
and reported Castro's conversations
with important visitors overheard
through the hotel, walls. Ily now, she
could read and speak Spanish fairly
well.
Thee kuite was full of guns and
papers," she said. "Fidel had papers
atrewn all over the tables, the floor,
the bed, the dresser. He had one filing
cabinet that was never locked. It was
full of money, papers, documents,
maps. I took papers out and slipped
them to Frank. Fidel never missed
them.
"Frank said, 'Get all the data you
can, and I did. I was a regular Mata.
Hari."
Then Marie became sick, and Frank
arranged her escape. Two Cuban offi-
cers took her out of the hotel while
Castro was away and put her on a
Cubana Airlines flight to New York.
i
About that time, Frank also set up
the escapes of two top Cuban air force
officers, a project that forced him to
leave Cuba. He moved his luse of
operations to Miami, bat he kept in
touch with his agents on the island and
his CIA contacta in Havana and Wash-
ington.
When she recovered from her ill-
ness, Marie jo ned him in Florida and
volunteered for a mission that meant
certain death if show were caught.
NW 50955 DocId:32423630
Page 471

NW 50955 DocId; 32423630 Pagé .

:
.

1

'
(Continuad from 2)
lowered and the bisbal (bearded
"A.
... dalhard like pirates, kro
nades d dangling from their belts and
thachira xuns uns swinging from their
shoulders
and ran for cover with their dinner-
women in evening themed
Jacketed husbandal Lelieving the ship
was twing raided by andit Lut otler,
Arwerwan' tearists recognized the leader
of the sinister-looking laral as Fidel
Castro, the new pedime pdime minister of Cuha,
Hari Who Duped Custo
the lull, chari afic dictator, luther
airborne illusions were shattered doon
after the plane Linded.
"I was ved Idealistic she
said. "I was going on an adventure and
to
to my first Jo I 1 was going to help
the new goverit punt. Instead, I betame
Castro's play thi
"I was dris in from the airport to
the Havana Ilton, where Fidel had
taken over the 4th floor. For the next
four months, hardly ever got qt of
the Hilton. When I did get out, was,
Pind they crowded around him for:
coffee shop, two burundus
graphi.
"I'm a friend," "The shoute! obviously
enyrying the commotion lepiad caused.
"I like Americans."
The Berlin's shopper, former Gerbian
Nivy Capt. Heinrich Lorenz, lagited
the barindos to stay for cocktail and
dianer, and he introduced Qustro to his
wifarious 18-year-old ear-old daughter, Mori
"My father spoke Spanish and he
it along well with Castro," Marie Jold
this reporter. "lle took Castro and his
nen on a tour of the ship, then alked
them to please leave their guns of dide
11:3 dining room before they sat hown
fof dinner.
"Castro said they didn't feel safe
vithout guns, so my father all wed
Gem to keep their pistols, but he iande
Livem legve the machine guns, automat
ic' rifles and grenades in the smoking
lounge.
Caste sat at the captain's table,
between Lorenz and Marie. During the
meal, he smiled frequently at Marie,
nad she was as impressed as any nor-
nal techage girl would be by compli
ments from, the flamboyant hero of the
Caban revolution.'
She spoke German and English,
which she had learned from her Ameri-
can mother. Castro said he needed a
sacretary who could write lettera in
these languages. Before the moal was
over, he offered the job to Marie.

Took Offer As Joke
"He asked me to stay in Havana
and work for him," she said. "My fa
ther and I both laughed. My father
said I was going back to Germany to
finish my education."
promised to write to her, 80
Castro pro
she gave him two addresses-her par-
ents home in Bremen, Germany, and
her brother's apartment in New York,
where she planned to stay when the
Caribbean cruise ended. She never ex-
pected to see or hear from Fidel again.
About two weeks later, two Cuban
officers called on Marie in New York.
They carried a message from Castro,
saying he was in desperate need of an
English-German translator. lie had sent
Cubana Airlines plane to bring her
back to Havana.
"I made a big mistake," Marle said.,
"I got on that plane."
During the flight to Havana, she
tried to imagine her life in Castroland.
She thought she wohlt have a deck in
the premier's seculatial pool and a
staall apartment of her own. She may
even have dreamed of a romance with
Source of Tarrabscci
Sturgis says SAL Garcia
momo

