157-10011-10041 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Date: 09/30/93
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10041
RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: SSCI
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:
TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING DATED JULY 16, 1975

DATE: 07/16/75
PAGES: 69

SUBJECTS:
TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING; TESTIMONY OF PROUTY, L. FLETCHER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:
SSCI Box number 283, Folder 6

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId:32203809 Page 1

TOP SECRET
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 they operate and the difference between a contact at a pro- 19

2 prietary firm, like Air America or Fairway, Incorporated or the

3 Mullen Company would contact, you deal with contact men, some

4 of whom were military who are cleared, but others are agency

5 who are in there.

6 Like Gil Greenaway was in the Pentagon, he was an

7 Agency employee, he was not a military man. So when air lines

8 contacted Greenaway they thought they were contacting a military

9 man, but he was really an employee of the Agency, for other

10 reasons. But he was a contact man. So there was an array of

11 different contact men.

12 Now, in that elaborate context Schorr approached the

13 subject, and he said, were there contacts in the White House?

14 And I said, well, sure. Being the senior members of NSC

15 we had contact for our Forty Committee work, and then 54/12

16 Committee, and we knew who to deal with in the White House.

17 And he said, well, were there ever any otherkind of

18 contacts?

19 And I said, the only POW contact was a very slight thing

20 tied up with the Mullen Company, and then went on into the

21 story.

22 And the only way that I heard about the contact was,

23 not that I was able to say that Butterfield was the

24 contact, but that they brought up the name of Butterfield, and

25 they said, we will get this business done
NW 50955 DocId:32203809 Page 2 TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
