157-10002-10165
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10165

RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R-696

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF DAVID ATLEE PHILLIPS

DATE: 07/31/75
PAGES: 178

SUBJECTS :
CIA
CUBA
CASTRO
LANSKY, MEYER
BAY OF PIGS
ASSASSINATION
TRAFFICANTE, SANTOS
RUBY, JACK
CHILE
ALLENDE
OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P.
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93
OPENING CRITERIA:
Box 256
Folder 14
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 1
Date: 10/05/93
Page:1

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
10
1 Mr. Phillips. I did not.
2 Mr. Schwarz. Did you know Jack Ruby?
3 Mr. Phillips. No, I did not.
4 Mr. Schwarz. Do youknow him under the name of Ruben-
5 stein?
6 Mr. Phillips. I did not.
7 Mr. Schwarz. What did you do between your work in Cuba
8 and the Chile matter which you were going to spend most of your
9 time on?
10 Mr. Phillips. After the Bay of Pigs business I went to
11 Mexico in late in 1961, and remained in Mexico until the very
12 early part of 1965, when I was assigned to the Dominican
13 Republic as chief of Station
14 Mr. Schwarz. And then
15 Mr. Phillips. I stayed in the Dominican Republic until
16 the summer of 1967.
17 And after that I returned to Washington and became
18 the Chief of Cuban Operations through 1969.
19 In 1970 I went to Rio de Janiero as Station Chief And
20 in 1971, I suffered the traumatic shock of being moved to
21 Brasilia from Rio de Janiero.
22 In 1972 I went to Venezuela as the Chief of Station
23 And in the summer of 1973 I was asked to return as Chief of
24 the then Western Hemisphere Division.
25 Mr. Schwarz. And is that the position you held until
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 2

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
14
1 or the other which would enable you to form a judgment as
2 to his attitude toward either the subject of assassination or
3 the question as to what kind of an explicit order would be
4 necessary in order to justify Agency actions to actually
5 assassinate some one.
6 Mr. Phillips. No, because I never heard Mr. Helms even
7 get that close to the edge of such talk about such and such an
8 option or possibility, I never heard him talk that way.
9 Mr. Schwarz. Did you ever hear anybody in the Agency
10 talk that way?
11 Mr. Phillips. Under traumatic conditions I have heard
12 human beings maybe with a few drinks or something like that
13 saying, my God, we would be better off if so and so were
14 bumped off or something.
15 But I have never heard two officers sit down and
16 seriously talk about such an option. And if anyone has ever
17 said that, it is the same way some people might get out of line
18 and say almost anything.
19 Mr. Schwarz. Did you ever hear, in connection with
20 the Chile operation, that certain Chilean officers, specifi-
21 cally a Major Marshall, reported to the CIA that they intended
22 to assassinate Allende?
23 Mr. Phillips. It was five years ago. But as I recall,
24 Major Marshall said a number of things. He was what I think
25 of as a wild man. I seem to recall something about, yes, a
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 3

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1 Mr. Schwarz.
2 whom we will come to in a moment, $50,000 if they could
3 accomplish it, didn't you?
4 Mr. Phillips. I think that was the correct sum, yes.
5 mr. Schwarz. And you gave them prior to their attempt
6 on the 19th of October some tear gas and some gas masks to
7 help accomplish the kidnapping?
8 Mr. Phillips. That is true.
9 Mr. Schwarz. And subsequently you provided to the Val-
10 enzuela group some machine guns, didn't you?
11 Mr. Phillips. That is ture.
12 Mr. Schwarz. And those were going to be used in a
13 kidnapping effort by the Valenzuela group, and you knew that,
14 didn't you?
15 Mr. Phillips. I recall that they were going to be
16 used by the group, and that kidnapping was a part of their
17 plans. I can't recall that they said they needed them spe-
18 cifically for the kidnapping. I do recall that the reason was
19 the automatic reaction from Latin America is, why do people
20 need arms when they have got arms everywhere all over Latin
21 America.
22 And they said something about, their own arms could be
23 identified, and they needed some that couldn't be identified.
24 I don't recall if it was specifically mentioned that it was
25 just for that. It was certainly understood that they might
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 4
And you offered through Colonel Wimert,
30

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1 Consequently, I personally made this proposal, that we
2 establish what I called a false flag base of people that would
3 go from outside, and should there be any sort of flap, the
4 chances of linking it to the U.S. Government would be much
5 less, because they would appear to be from another nationality.
6 Mr. Schwarz. I would like to read to you a cable is
7 this cable of 27 September in the Senator's book? I know that
8 he asked for it after I came over.
9 Mr. Treverton. It is not.
10 Mr. Schwarz. I am going to read from a cable which
11 unfortunately is not in your book, but the key part is
12 relatively simple.
13 This is a cable, Mr. Phillips, dated September 27, 1970,
14 and it is signed by yourself and Mr. Broe. And it is sent to
15 the Station in Chile, and it contains the following about the
16 purposes of setting up the false flag office
17 Mr. Phillips. We call it a base.
18 Mr. Schwarz. False flag bases: "Each member of base
19 will enter and leave Chile with falst documents and operate as
20 a representative of his country rather than as anAmerican".
21 That is right, isn't it?
22 Mr. Phillips. That is true.
23 Mr. Schwarz. Continue:
24 "Having at least one key Brazilian and one key Argentinian
25 would be vital, and we have candidates."
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 5
44

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
45
1 And you did that.
2 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
3 Mr. Schwarz. And then it goes on as follows: "These
4 officers will perform the delicate shows with great flap
5 potential which cannot be done by Station personnel or any
6 Chilean."
7 That is right, isn't it?
8 Mr. Phillips. That is true.
9 Mr.Schwarz. And by flap potential you meant exposure?
10 Mr. Phillips. Contacting screwballs such as Marshall,
11 that sort of thing.
12 Mr. Schwarz. But generally pursuing the Track II
13 activities?
14 Mr. Phillips. That is right.
15 Mr. Schwarz. Continuing: "An example. We have can-
16 didates who can successfully pose as Brazilian intelligence
17 officers." You did that, didn't you?
18 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
19 Mr. Schwarz. And this goes on: "If he approached, funded
20 and ran a Chilean General, any flap would be a Brazilian one".
21 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
22 Mr. Schwarz. So the scheme was that not only would
23 the U.S. not be blamed, but other countries like Brazil would
24 be blamed if something went wrong.
25 Mr. Phillips. Yes, this is particularly sensitive to me,
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 6

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
46
1 because my daughter happens to be married to a Brazilian
2 foreign service officer! However, that was it. It was a
3 devious move. It was the final result the idea being that
4 if such a flap did occur, someone would think it was someone
5 other than the U.S. The idea of false flag operations is
6 not a new one. The idea I had of going to someone and saying,
7 why don't you be a spy for us, I don't work for the Soviets,
8 is not true.
9 But this is sort of new, the fact that action agents
10 should pose as others. And yes, it is devious, but that
11 was the idea.
12 Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Phillips, what were
13 their instructions if they were to be caught? Were they to go
14 to their death swearing they were Brazilians or whatever?
15 Mr. Phillips. I don't think it was quite that dramatic,
16 Senator. They came to Washington before they went down. And
17 I briefed them,and I think what I said to them was, this
18 is going to be a tough and sensitive one, and you don't have
19 to go if you don't want to, because you culd get in real trouble.
20 And if you get in trouble, I am not sure we can help
21 you.
22 So, they shrugged their shoulders and went.
23 Mr. Schwarz. Did you tell the Brazilians that you were
24 sending someone down to pose as a Brazilian, and his instruc-
25 tions were that if he were caught he was to continue to pose
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 7

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
47
1 as a Brazilian and the Brazilians were approached?
2 Mr. Phillips. It never occurred to us in our wildest
3 dreams to do that.
4 Mr. Schwarz. I suppose the relationships between con-
5 tinuing intelligence services were things that were
6 very important to preserve, and that we had very close and
7 delicate relationships with the otherfintelligence services.
8 Mr. Phillips. We do. And if there had been such a
9 man the Brazilians would be quite unhappy with us. But I
10 thought that was better than letting the world know that was
11 a U.S. Citizen down there.
12 Mr. Schwarz. You go on in the cable of September 27
13 to say this:
14 "Headquarters believes this false flag was manned by
15 officers who have repeatedly proved their ability to operate
16 and recruit under false colors, will give Station great flexi-
17 bility in handling delicate and fast-moving situations secure-
18 ly."
19 So, the use of false flag persons, at least judging
20 from this cable, is something repeatedly done by the CIA?
21 Mr. Phillips. Yes, and by all intelligence services
22 not all, but all major intelligence services. If you are living
23 overseas and a man comes up to you and says, hey, I see you
24 are a Marxist, and a man comes up and says, I am from Havana
25 and we would like you to work with the Cuban intelligence
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 8

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
48
1 service, he might not be from Havana, he might be from the
2 Soviets, from us, or from the Brazilians.
3 So, it is not an unusual practice.
4 Mr. Schwarz. Incidentally, you just let drop one thing
5 in your testimony a moment ago. You said that in your 25-year
6 involvement with intelligence matters you had been bothered
7 by your activities on only two occasions, one of which was
8 Chile.
9 And then you said what the other one was. What was that?
10 Mr. Phillips. I was in Washington attending the Chiefs
11 of Station course, which is a training course for people who
12 are going out on their first assignment as Chief of Station.
13 When President Johnson decided to send 22,000 Marines
14 to the Dominican Republic, it occurred to me that in order to
15 protect and evacuate American citizens, that that job might
16 have been done with 400 Marines. I was scheduled to go there
17 as the Chief of Station. And I just wasn't sure that I
18 wanted to be associated with something like that. But I de-
19 cided, well, I suppose President Johnson knows what he is
20 doing, I will go I am going to go along. So, I did go
21 along.
22 Senator Schweiker. One question on your differentiation
23 between where you drew a personal commitment line on assassin-
24 ations, but not overthrow. I have trouble quite understanding
25 it, because as I understand Chile, the plot was to overthrow
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 9

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
55
1 Mr. Phillips. There is no question that I could under-
2 stand why anyone concerned with world affairs, looking at
3 Chile and what was happening there, would be concerned.
4 Salvadore Allende made his first statement saying that
5 he was a Socialist and wanted to change the order some 32
6 years beforehe was elected.
7 Over the years he made it quite clear that he was an ar-
8 dent socialist. Before this decision was made I believe that
9 we had a visit from a man who had the code name of Ariel, he
10 was a Cuban intelligence officer. The Cubans were moving in
11 rapidly. The influence was great. I think that they saw a lot
12 at stake, another Cuba in Latin America type of thing, the
13 same thing perhaps that motivated President Johnson to send
14 22,000 rather than 400.
15 So, I can understand why they thought this was going,
16 in the long strategic sense, in the long range against our
17 interests. But that is an assumption.
18 It is true that Allende very definitely made it clear
19 that he wanted to turn Chile into a Marxist state. The differ-
20 ence was that Allende refused to take Fidel Castro's advice
21 and use violence. As I understand it, Fidel Castro went to
22 Chile and said, if you want your revolution to last you are
23 going to have to use violence.
24 I found it interesting to read in this morning's paper
25 where someone from Portugal came back from Cuba and said,
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 10

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
59
1 activities?
2 Mr. Phillips. No, sir. I was the Station Chief in
3 Rio de Janiero in Brazil, and was called back in 1970 for
4 six or seven weeks for what we are referring to as Track II.
5 Senator Mondale. Now, in that position you familiarized
6 yourself with the Chilean government, Allende and so on,
7 and tried to become as expert as you could in the political
8 forces and so on?
9 Mr. Phillips. Yes. And in addition to that, Senator,
10 one of the reasons I was called back was that I had lived
11 for many years in Chile, so I knew something about it.
12 Senator Mondale. And it is your judgment as I think I
13 just heard, that although Allende was a Marxist, and espoused
14 Marxism, he also said he wanted to achieve this through the
15 democratic process, and although there was some rough stuff
16 on the press, and so on, essentially that was the course he
17 was pursuing, is that correct?
18 Mr. Phillips. I don't recall that he said it, but
19 he indeed acted that way.
20 Senator Mondale. But in fact the course he was pur-
21 suing was an attempt to achieve the Marxist philosophy with
22 the population support under constitutional system?
23 Mr. Phillips. Yes, essentially that is true, sir.
24 Senator Mondale. Thank you.
25 Mr. Schwarz. I would like to read to you in connection
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 11

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
65
1 assignment by the President and by the White House?
2 Mr. Phillips. Senator, it doesn't make any difference
3 today. On the contrary, since Watergate the people say, why
4 should we? Before Watergate it was another ball game.
5 The President was the Commander in Chief in every sense of the
6 word.
7 And you said, who am I, a GS-15 bureaucrat, to say that
8 we shouldn't do this? But that has changed since Watergate.
9 Senator Hart of Colorado. One other question.
10 I call your attention in our briefing books to what is
11 Tab C, a cable which has your name at the end of it dated 21
12 September 1970, page 3 of 7. Are you an author or co-author
13 of that cable?
14 Mr. Phillips. I believe I was the authenticating
15 officer, yes.
16 Senator Hart of Colorado. What does that mean?
17 Mr. Phillips. That meant that the signature on the
18 right of those cables is someone that is the authenticating
19 officer in a sense, here is a fellow that is supposed to know
20 the situation.
21 Senator Hart of Colorado. But who wrote it, I guess
22 is what I am after.
23 Mr. Phillips. I would guess that this cable was probably
24 written by Mr. Poinzio, and perhaps myself, perhaps it was
25 joint. But Mr. Poinzio wrote an awful lot of them. But by
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 12

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
66
1 putting my signature on the authenticating part I said I was
2 a part of it. And then, of course, the releasing officer is
3 the one that accepts the responsibility.
4 Senator Hart of Colorado. Page 3 of 7 which has
5 the paragraph identified as the paragraph F contains the follow-
6 ing sentence or part of a sentence: You suggest sending
7 us cables outlining objectives and course of events, et
8 cetera, and he said, always conditioned by the fact that we have
9 to keep our feet in the mud of practicality, and our eyes
10 on the stars.
11 What does that mean in Agency talk?
12 Mr. Phillips. Senator, I want to assure you with real
13 seriousness that I am not the author of that phrase.
14 Senator Hart of Colorado. It must have caught your eye,
15 however.
16 Mr. Phillips. It did catch my eye. If this was indeed
17 a joint venture, I can promise that that was Dino Poinzio's
18 contribution, and if you ever meet him you will understand
19 why. He was addicted to picturesque speech. And looking
20 back, all I can say is that it probably went out at four
21 o'clock in the morning, and we were very tired, and I just
22 didn't want to argue about that phrase, and I let it go. I
23 am not sure what it means even now.
24 SEnator Hart of Colorado. Neither am I. But it seems
25 to describe a lot of what we have heard around here for the
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 13

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
76
1 Now, I read that as Helms' position being that the
2 assassination of Schneider was something which presented the
3 opportunity for the very thing that the U.S. wished to have
4 done.
5 Do you agree with me?
6 Mr. Phillips. No, I can't agree with you on that. I am
7 not sure about the suggestion from the language. But I will
8 tell you the immediate reaction in our little task force when
9 the word came that Schneider was dead, that is it, it is finished
10 Knowing Chileans, the moment that that violence occurred,
11 Chileans, with the possible exception of a nut such as
12 Marshall, immediately said, this is it, that is enough. There
13 was still that tradition over the years. And I think that the
14 moment we heard of it and we discussed it we said, that is
15 it, there will be no more. In many countries in Latin America
16 that would have been the signal for further action, weakness,
17 and so forth. But in this case it was the end of the
18 business.
19 Mr. Schwarz. I want to run through with you the activi
20 ties which were being undertaken with the Valenzuela group
21 and with the Viaux group. In the case of Viaux, was that one
22 of the assignments that the false flag officers had?
23 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
24 Mr. Schwarz. And in the case of Valenzuela, was that
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 14
25 one of the assignments that Colonel Wimert had?
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
77
1 Mr. Phillips. Wimert Yes, I believe it was Colonel
2 Wimert that was in touch with that group.
3 Mr. Schwarz. And the two teams worked in tandem,
4 didn't they?
5 Mr. Phillips. Are you referring to Chilean teams?
6 Mr. Schwarz. No, the false flag team and colonel
7 Wimert.
8 Mr. Phillips. Only in the sense that there might have
9 been some central direction from the office or from headquar-
10 ters. I don't believe that anyone of the false flaggers had
11 the slightest idea that Colonel Wimert was working with us.
12 And I don't believe that Colonel Wilmert I don't know that
13 Colonel Wimert knew about them.
14 So, no, they didn't work in tandem, except in sense of
15 direction from the Station.
16 Mr. Schwarz. Headquarters down there, and you in
17 Washington, were working with both the Valenzuela groupand
18 the Viaux group?
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
19 Mr. Phillips. Yes, sir.
20 Senator Hart of Colorado. Are you in a chain here,
21 counsel?
22 Mr. Schwarz. I am in a chain, but it is easily interrup-
23 tible.
24 Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Phillips, did we
25 chronologically maybe the staff can answer that, I am just
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 15

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
92
1 Viaux group was really acting in order to carry out step one
2 of the Valenzuela group's plan?
3 Mr. Phillips. Yes, to address this point specifically.
4 Obviously when the guns were passed through colonel Wimert
5 and the death occurred so soon after, immediately we
6 thought they probably used those guns. It was then when we
7 read the press reports that General Schneider died from hand-
8 gun wounds. And that was the first time we thought we could
9 really be sure in our own mind that it wasn't directly
10 the Valenzuela group using those guns.
11 Mr. Schwarz. What about the gas masks that had
12 been furnished earlier? WAsn't there evidence that there
13 were gas masks in the care of the persons who attempted to
14 abduct General Schneider?
15 Mr. Phillips. I don't recall. There may very well have
16 been, but I am not real sure about that.
17 Mr. Schwarz. I am going to go to another area, which
18 is the relationship with Colonel Wimert. If there are any
19 questions on the relationship between the two groups.
20 Senator Hart of Colorado. Concerning the October 19
21 attempts, under Tab 4 on page 7 of the longer memorandum
22 by Dianne LaVoy under October 18 there is reference to a cable
23 A66 dated October 19. And concerning the connection of
24 these various conspirators, it says: "Valenzuela meets with
25 US Army attache and gives him a 15 point plan for coup to be
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 16

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
93
1 carried out on October 19. The Huerth, who was head of the
2 Carabineros, witting of the above plan, has promised to keep
3 the Carabineros away from the Schneier houseto assure that the
4 abduction will not be interferred with. General Viaux is
5 knowledgeable of the above operation, but is not directly
6 involved."
7 What do you think "not directly involved" refers to?
8 Why not just not involved?
9 Mr. Phillips. I think that probably referred to what
10 I was saying before, that in these situations it is not very
11 unusual that there is not some talk that everybody has a cousin
12 that works with some group type of thing.
13 And I believe that it must refer to that.
14 Mr. Schwarz. Taking the actual cable, is the actual
15 cable in the Senator's books?
16 Mr. Inderfurther. No.
17 Mr. Schwarz. Let me read the full text of that para-
18 graph from the cable. It is a cable apparently dated 19
19 October on the subject of General Viaux:
20 "General Viaux, knowledgeable of above operation, but not
21 directly involved. He has been sent to Vina to stay with
22 prominent physician. Will be seen in public places during 19
23 and 20 October to demonstrate fact that above operation is
24 not his doing. Will be allowed to return to Santiago at end of
25 week."
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 17

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
94
1 Now, I can't read that language any way other than
2 meaning that the Valenzuela group and the Viaux group were in
3 close cooperation, that was part of the abduction plan, it
4 was agreed between the two that Viaux would appear would
5 be out of town so that he would not appear to be involved.
6 And you have to read that, do you not, as meaning that there
7 was a close cooperation on this effort between the two groups.
8 Mr. Phillips. Yes, I think you do have to read it that
9 way.
10 Miss Culbreth. Would you identify that paper more
11 than just the statement?
12 Mr. Phillips. Cable sent to headquarters A66.
13 Mr. Schwarz. No. A66, eyes only to
14 Mr. Inderfurth. DCOS, which was Becksher.
15 Mr. Treverton. It is Tab M, it is in the book.
16 Mr. Schwarz. I think we ought to mark that as an ex-
17 hibit.
18 (The document referred to was
19 marked Phillips Exhibit No. 2
20 for identification.)
21
22
23
24
25
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 18

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
101
1 As for the narrow part of your question, by all means
2 it is a bad way to do business.
3 Senator Schweiker. Go ahead.
4 Mr. Schwarz. Picking up on Senator Schweiker's line
5 of quesioning, would you show the witness Tab A, the docu-
6 ment Tab A.
7 It is a memorandum for the record by Mr. Broe dated 17
8 September, and then that is crossed out and it says 16 Sep-
9 tember, "Subject, Genesis of Project".
10 Incidentally, what was the code name for this project?
11 Was it FU Belt?
12 Mr. Phillips. Beltway or FU Belt, one of the two.
13 Mr. Schwarz. Does FU stnd for anything in particular?
14 Mr. Phillips. Chile. So it would be FU. The first two
15 letters there indicate a geographical araa. So it would beba
16 lot of different ones, but that would mean Chile. FU Belt
17 means Chile. Belt means nothing.
18 Mr. Schwarz. Everybody keeps saying that so many of
19 these things mean nothing. Who is responsible for these
20 names?
21 Mr. Phillips. There is somebody who is supposed to have
22 a big liest to make sure that they were not duplicated.
23 And I think sometimes there is a pixie-like quality that comes
24 out in those things.
25 Senator Schweiker. That is an understatement, to call
TOP SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 19

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
102
1 it pixie-like.
2 Mr. Phillips. But many times the cryptonums mean ab-
3 solutely nothing, they have no meaning at all.
4 Senator Schweiker. SRRIFLE, ROGUE ELEPHANT
5 Mr. Phillips. I am sorry, sir.
6 Senator Schweiker. We have come across a few other good
7 ones.
8 Mr. Schwarz. I don't know if you have ever seen that
9 document, and it doesn't matter. But the end of paragraph 2
10 indicates that the instructions from the President concluded:
11 "The Agency is to carry out this mission without
12 coordination with the Department of State or Defense".
13 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
14 Mr. Schwarz. And that was your instruction?
15 Mr. Phillips. That is correct.
16 Mr. Schwarz. Now, in fact, of course, you did use in
17 Chile a man called Colonel Wimert.
18 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
19 Mr. Schwarz. And he was in the Defense Department?
20 Mr. Phillips. That is correct.
21 Mr. Schwarz. And he was assigned he was instructed
22 to take his instructions only from the CIA inChile, is that
23 right?
24 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
25 Mr. Schwarz. And he