157-10008-10241
[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

2/774
7/28/98

Date:10/07/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENCY INFORMATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10241 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
RECORDS SERIES : IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

6/12/98
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R602
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

DATE: 07/24/75
PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS:
INTERVIEW WITH BRUCE CHEEVER
ASSASSINATION INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
BOX 438-3

(

NW 50955 DocId: 32203749 Page 1 [R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

438-3 INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY R602

(
INTERVIEW WITH: Bruce Cheever

REGARDING: Assassination Inquiry SSCI DO 438-3

SSCI BOX 438-3
DATE-TIME-LOCATION: July 24, 1975 10241

PRESENT: Paul WALLACH and Joe DiGenova

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

MATERIAL SUBMITTED BY INTERVIEWEE(S):

EXECUTIVE SESSION: Yes No

NW 50955 DocId: 32203749 Page 2

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY F.102 Page 1 of 6

(
TOP SECRET
This morning Joe DiGenova and I interviewed
Bruce Cheever at the Carroll Arms. We focused on
Cheever's tenure as deputy director of Task Force
W.

Background:
1938-43 Marine Corps
1943-44 OSS Parachute School
1944-46 Marine Corps
1950-53 Office Police Coordination; headed
Plans Section for Western European
Division (4-3
1953-56 Siles of Station; Sweden
1956-60 Deputy Chief, European Division
1960-3/62 Headquarters, U. S. European Command
(U. S. representative)
3/62-65 Deputy Director: Task Force W
1965-71 (chief of Stations(xouen Avaresical 12-12
1971 Retired from Agency
3/64-2/65 Deputy Chief, Special Operations
Branch (developing paramilitary
capabilities for Agency)

Apparently selected for Task Force W because
of extensive paramilitary background. Not sure
whether slotted by Harvey or Helms.

Prior to his Task Force Wassignment, Harvey
was known to Cheever by reputation only. He des-
cribed Harvey as one of the finest operatives the
Agency ever had, citing Harvey's Berlin tunnel.

Cheever understood that Task Force W was
Mongoose's instrument to get rid of the Castro
regime; that the Cuban operations had White House
backing; and that the Agency had been given an
operational carte blanche, with the caveat that
each operation had to receive explicit SGA approval
prior to getting off the drawing board.

Cheever told us: "You don't pull in fast-rising
men like [Ted) Schakley unless you have solid back-
ing." Cheever believes that Lansdale was RFK's
representative and that Task Force W would not
suggest aggressive covert action to the SGA with-
out Lansdale's approval.
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OF
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUME
AS SANITIZED

14 Jul 94
(1)(B)
(1)(c).

DocId:32203749 Page 3

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 2 of 6

FILE:

Cheever confirmed what we knew about Harvey.
Although Cheever worked closely with Harvey, he
told us that Harvey was a loner and most surely
would not inform him of operations unless he had
a "must need to know". In Cheever's opinion,
Harvey was one of the great believers in compart-
mentalization; Cheever "complained that Harvey
turned him into his staff man" (as compared to an
operational extension). Cheever also told us that
Harvey was a two martini man at lunch with thyroid
problems; this often "led to problems for Harvey
at early afternoon meetings".

Cheever believes he attended at least ten SGA
meetings. However he does not recall RFK, only
recalls briefing Bundy. (Maybe Cheever attended
other than SGA meetings -- the minutes do not re-
flect his attendance.)

Cheever met weekly with designees of the SGA
principals in Lansdale's office (Messrs. Califano,
Haig, Hurwitch, Craig, and Johnson). Cheever would
brief these designees on proposed operational
plans; discussion of the details would ensue.
Subsequent to the staff meetings, the principals
would meet and decide whether or not the particular
plan would be approved. Cheever did state that the
Group often rejected proposals. In one instance,
Max Taylor vetoed the maritime infiltration of a
small team. Taylor felt that the chances of success
were small and attributability great. (Cheever
agreed with Taylor -- "but it was one of Lansdale's
brain childs.")

Cheever told us that "around the Task Force W
shop it was known that the Kennedys wanted to get
rid of the Castro regime." In order to get this
done, "the Kennedys built a fire under the Agency's
tail and installed Lansdale as Chief of Operations".
According to Cheever, Lansdale and the SGA were
"geared to keeping the Kennedys informed as to what
was happening".

However, after the Cuban missile crisis, Cuban
operations were not pursued with the same sense of
urgency.
NW 50955 DocId:32203749 Page 4
