157-10014-10089
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 08/06/95
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10089
RECORDS SERIES: HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 11-H-08

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM: TWEEDY, BRONSON
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 10/09/75
PAGES: 92
SUBJECTS: CIA
ASSASSINATION, LUMUMBA, PATRICE

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/98
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId:32423477 Page 1

76000151031

CURITY TAFORMATION
TOP SECRET

Vol 1 OF
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject
to Criminal Banction

The Nuited States Senate R1572

Report of Proceedings

3/19/22
BY EG
Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, October 9, 1975

Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruct:..

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003
(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

NW
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Arse 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
amt

1 CONTENTS
2 WITNESS
Bronson Tweedy
4
EXHIBITS
5 EXHIBIT FOR IDENTIFICATION
6 No. 1 3
7 No. 2 11
8 No. 3 28
9 No. 4 32
10 No. 5 35
11 No. 6 39
12 No. 7 41
13 No. 8 43
14 No. 9 46
15 No. 10 57
16 No. 11 58
17 No. 12 63
A
PAGE

4
TOP SECRET

HW
TASCIONE:amt
WARD .
PAUL
Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
EXECUTIVE: SESSION
Thursday, October 10, 1975
1
United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.

The Committee mat, pursuant to notice, at 11:25 o'clock
a.m. ir. Room 407, The Capitol, the Honorable Richard Schweiker
presiding.

Present: Senator Schweiker (presiding).

Also present: Frederick Baron and Rhett Dawson, Profes-
sional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

NW
1
WARD .
NO & PAUL
Phone (Ares 202) 344-6000
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
TOP SECRET
PROCEEDINGS
Senator Schweiker. Nould you raise your right hand?
Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to
give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
so help you God?
Mr. Tweedy. I do.

Senator Schweiker. It has been nice meeting you.

Mr. Tweedy. Thank you very much.

(Whereupon, Senator Schweiker left the hearing room.)

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Baro.. Mr. Tweedy, you have just received the oath
from Senator Schweiker, who has now left the room, and you are
under no obligation to continue to testify in his absence, but
obviously the Committee would appreciate it greatly if you
would continue to testify.

Are you willing to continue to testify in the Senator's
absence?

Mr. Tweedy. I plan to testify fully.

Mr. Baron.. You are willing to testify to the truth as bes
as you can do it?

Mr. Weedy. I will indeed.

Mr. Baron. Are you aware that you have the right to
counsel?

Mr. Tweady. 1 dim.

Mr. Baron. You are appearing here voluntarily without
TOP SECRET
2

NW
410
WARD & PAUL
221
Phone (Arse 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
3
1
counsel?

2
Mr. Twaady. I am.

3
Mr. Baron. Are you also aware that you may cease answering

4
questions at any point if you wish to consult with counsel?

5
Mr. Tweedy. I am.

6
Mr. Baron. Finally, are you aware that all of your Consti-
7
tutional rights are intact, including your Fifth Amandment

8
rights to remain silent?

9
Mr. Tweedy. I am.

10
Mr. Baron. All right, then.
11
Let us proceed to review a set of documents which were not

12
available to us in your first examination. The attempt here

13
today is not to go over a lot of old ground that we covered

14
in your first examination but to focus our concerns on a few

15
main events in the alleged story of an assassination plot

16
against Lumumba, and to refresh your recollection by review of

17
these documents.

Let me introduce as Exhibit 1 a cable from Allen Dulles
to the Leopoldville Station, marked for Robert Guthman on
October 26th, 1960.

(The document referred
to was marked Tweedy
Exhibit No. 1 for
identification.)

TOP SECRET
6

NH
Phone | Area 202) 544-4000
TOP SECRET
TESTIMONY OF BRONSON TWEEDY

Mr. Baron. We discussed this cable in your previous
appearance, did we not?

Mr. Tweedy. August 26th.

5 May I correct the date? It is August 26th.

6 Mr. Baron. Certainly.

7 Mr. Tweedy. It is rather important.

8 Mr. Baron. It is August 26th.

9 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, we did indeed discuss it the last time.

10 Mr. Baron. After you took another look at this cable

11 this morning before we went on the record, you made a remark to
PAUL
12
WAND
13
the effect that this cable was a source of authority as far as
you were concerned at the time.

14 Is that your impression now?

15 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

16 Let me just add to that a bit. The cable per se I did not

17 remember, but it is perfectly obvious the cable is the authority.

18 When I first talked to Mr. Bissell about this, he certainly

19 implied the only reason the subject was being raised is because

20 it had been of national policy level concern. I do not think

21 it could be more clear-cut than that. This was basically, this

22 was the formal expression of that by the Director himself.

23 I cannot remember which came first, did I see this cable

24 first, or did I talk to Mr. Bissell first. I suspect that I

25 talked to Mr. Bissell first. It must have been absolutely in
TOP SECRET

NW
1
2
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
TOP SECRET
the same time period.

This marely confirmed what I think I probably heard from
Mr. Bissell first.

Mr. Baron. In this discussion with Mr. Bissell, you are
referring to the subject of getting access to Lumumba for the
purpose of assassination.

Mr. Tweedy. I think it probably came up in the sense that
the thrust of the American position was that there was no
solution in the Congo without the fall from power of Mr. Lumumba,
and no measure should be overlooked to achiave this constitu-
tional, revolutionary and indeed, executive action, if you want
to call it that.

Mr. Baron.. Meaning assassination?
Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

But none of these possible measures wers excluded, and the
main point was that everybody agreed that Lumumba had to go or
We ware in for very serious trouble in the Congo.

Mr. Baron. You were referring a moment ago in discussing
this cable from Allen Dulles to the fact that when you first
discussed the possibility of assassinating Lumumba as one means
of removing him from power with Richard Bissell, Bissell referre
to this cable.

Mr. Tweedy.
No, I would have seen this cable when it went
out. I am afraid you cannot pin me down on this, because I
Cani.ot remember the sequence of event.s. It would have been a
TOP SECRET
5
NW
WARD
PAUL
TOP SECRET
1 perfectly natural follow-up to my discussion with Bissell.
It
2 is conceivable that this went out before I talked to Bissall,
3 do not exclude that, but the two were totally in tandem.

4 Mr. Baron. Having taken a look at all of the documents
5 that we are about to introduca into the record today, before
6 we begin taking your testimony on the record, are you able to
7 pinpoint with any more precision your initial discussion with
8 Mr. Bissell of the prospect of assassinating Lumumba?

9 Mr. Tweedy. Pinpoint it in terms of time?

10 Mr. Baron. Yas.

11 Mr. Tweedy. No, not in terms of time. I can only assum

12 Mr. Baron. It would have taken place shortly before this

13 Allen Dulles cable?

14 Mr. Tweedy. Either shortly before, or shortly after,
15 because the next series of cables obviously get the show, as
16 it ware, on the road.

17 May I comment just generally on those cables as a group?
18 There are no surprises in them as far as I am concerned, in
19 terms of detail. Much of it, even to this day, I still do not
20 remember.

21 One aspect emerges very clearly for me, that we were ver
22 careful about examining this on the possibilities of doing
23 anything against Lumumba. Rasically, this whole period was a
24 Series of exchanges with the field who were seeking, as you car
25 soe from that cable traffic, various measures that might perfor
TOP SECRET
9

NW
WARO
PAUL
Phone (Area 2021 544-4000
TOP SECRET
7
1 or achieve the goal, including, indeed assassination, but not

2 by any means limited to that, that we were in trouble finding

3 means which appeared secure, particularly means which kept the

4 U.S. hand hidden. It is the to and from, and the atmosphere

5 of it which is very familiar to me, the details of it, much of

6 it even on reading them, is rather unfamiliar to me. I found
7 no surprises in it.

8 Mr. Baron. Having refreshed your recollection by reviewing

9 these cables, can you add any greater specificity to the record

10 about the substance of your conversations with Richard Bissell

11 on the possibility of assassinating Lumumba?
12 Mr. Twesdy. I think what we used to do, as I remember it,

13 when it came to the technical exchange with the Station on one

14 asset versus another, the possible security weakness of this

15 man versus the possible strengths of another, Bissell left this

16 largely to me. I do not mean to say that we did not from time

17 to tima review it. He did not debate with me on whether [WHITE]

18 [CLAIM](?) was somebody who was worth dealing with or not, because

19 he had Belgian connections, for example.

20 Mr. Baron. You are saving he would have left the operatio:.!!

21 details to you?

22 Mr. Tweedy. The operational details of trying to come "

23 with some solution that looked as if it made sense, and had

24 promise of success. I do not recall that we would discuss this

25 type of a cable in detail. As you can ses, he released quits
TOP SECRET

NW
Phone | Ares 2071 544-6008
TOP SECRET
8
1 a number of them, because he wanted to remain familiar with

2 them.

3 (Discussion off the record.)

4 Mr. Baron. Back on the record on this subject.

5 Mr. Tweedy. No, I do not have any further recollection of

6 detailed discussions with Bissell on this. On the other hand,

7 it was perfectly clear that he remained actively interested in

8 it. I am sure that he was the one that had the idea of Justin

9 O'Donnell, for example, I think he undoubtedly came up with

10 that idea. As you recall, I had forgotten entirely that Justin

11 O'Donnell had ever played a role in this. I am sure when he

12 fixed on O'Donnell the possibility to assist the Chief of Statice

13 he must have discussed this with him. I can almost say I

14 remember it, but hardly.

15 Mr. Baron. Do you have any recollection of what Bissell

16 said to you in the series of discussions on the prospect of

17 assassinating Lumumba about the level at which the exploration

18 of this prospect had beer. authorized?

19 Mr. Tweedy. No. That is the aspect I was never clear on

20 excopt that it was perfectly clear to me that he was quite

21 confide..t that this was I am now talking about the elimination

22 of Lumumba by whatever means. I am not talking necessarily

23 about assassination: I want to be quite clear on that.

24 I was quite clear in my mind that the policy levels of

25 Washington were agreed that Lumumba must go. I cannot go any
TOP SECRET

NW
mone (Arse 2021 544-6008
TOP SECRET
9
1 further than that. I cannot say, for example, that Bissell
2 said I think as an Agency we should consider assassination on
3 this or that this had been discussed with the policy levels
4 of government. I do not know, and it was never made clear to
5 me nor does this cable make clear, but it was perfectly clear
6 that Mr. Dulles felt quite quiat in his mind about discussing
7 any of these aspects with the State Department or the Ambassador.
AUL
8 Mr. Baron. Off the record.

9 (Whereupon, a brief racess was taken.)

10 Mr. Baron.. We are back on the racord now.

11 When we stopped, we were discussing your account of your
12 meetings with Richard Bissell where the subject of assassinating
13 Lumumba had arisen among other means that had been considered

14 in disposing of Lumumba, Did Richard Bissell ever indicate

15 directly or indirectly to you that he had the authority of the

16 President of the United States for moving forward with an

17 operation which might include assassinating Lumumba?

18 Mr. Tweedy. Let me make it quite clear, he certainly
19 never mentioned the President at all.

20 Mr. Baron. By name?

21 Sir. Tweedy. By name, or even by any indication. It was

22 marely my impression reinforced, certainly, either before or
23 after, of this cable of Allan Dulles that this was a policy

24 level decision, but the extant to which the Executive had

25 assassination discussed with him at all, I cannot comment on.
TOP SECRET

NW
TOP SECRET
10
1 It is perfectly obvious that the Agency felt that it had
2 the support of the. Executive in efforts to eliminate Lumumba.
3 It was at least my impression throughout this whole period that
4 if it ever came down to the point where somebody said, I think
5 we can do it, and we decided upon the means, that someone would
6 have said, well, before we do, obviously there has to be final
7 approval. I would not have known where the final approval
8 would have come from. I would not expect that my corresporidence
9 with the Chief of Station in Leopoldville would result in the
10 assassination of Mr. Lumumba without further referance.

11 Mr. Baron. You were under the impression that whatever
12 steps you were involved in toward eliminatir.q Lumumba, as you
13 put it, were fully authorized at the highest level of the
14 government?

15 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, I was.

16 Mr. Baron. That would include the President?

17 Mr. Tweedy. I do not really think I can answer that

18 questior, Mr. Baron. Wher: somebody at my level, fairly serior

19 though it was, receives clear-cut assurances that the policy

20 level wants something done, it is very difficult for him to

21 judge whether the President per se has been in contact with the

22 Agency or that he has done this through his National Security

23 Advisor, the Secretary of Stats, or whoever. There could he

24 no way that. I could judge that.

25 I think it would be quite misleading if I were to try to
TOP SECRET

NW
TOP SECRET
11
1 read into it either then or now.

2 Mr. Baron. Whatever impression you had of the extent of

3 the authority for the steps that you were taking to eliminate

4 Lumumba was derived from your conversations with Richard

5 Bissell?

6 Mr. Tweedy. And the cable.

7 Mr. Baron. And the cable by Allen Dulles.

8 Mr. Tweedy. Which marely indicated to me that the Agency

9 was confident that it had its policy guidance and was thus

10 acting accordingly.

11 Mr. Baron. Batween this cable on August 26th which

12 Allan Dulles dispatched to the Congo and tha cahle we will now

13 mark Exhibit 2, which is a cable from yourself to Leopoldvill

14 On Septembar 19th, marked Eyes Only, Guthman from Jadwin..

15 (The document referred

16 to was marked Tweedy
17 Exhibit No. 2 for
18 identification.)
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
TOP SECRET

HW

TOP SECRET
12
1 Mr. Baron. Were there any other meetings that you recall

2 between yourself and Richard Bissell where he asked you to

3 move beyond the exploratory stage to the implementation stage

4 in assassinating Lumumba?

5 Mr. Tweedy. I do not know at all. I just do not recall

6 that that ever occurred.

7 Mr. Baron. Let us turn, then, to this cable.
8 This cable indicates

9 Mr. Tweedy. This is the one on the 19th?
10 Mr. Baron. Yes.
11 (Discussion off the racord.)

12 Mr. Baron. Back on the record.

13 This cable begins with your indication to the Chief of

14 Station that someone was proceeding shortly to the Congo who

15 would announce himself as Sid from Paris.

16 First of all, to backtrack, Guthman, in this cable, is

17 the Chief of Station, is that right?

18 Mr. Tweedy. Correct.

19 Mr. Baro... Who we agreed would be referred to as the

20 Chief of Station or by hin alias, Hedqmena, and Jadwin is

21 Mr. Tweedy. My pseudonym.

22 Mr. Barom. Did you have a first name in the pseudonym?

23 Mr. Tweedy. Thomas K.

24 Mr. Baro::. Who was Sid from Paris?

25 Mr. Tweady. I was trying to think. The identity is Sid
TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
13
1 Brown. Sid Brown as a name means nothing to me.
2 Mr. Baron. If I represent to you that we have had testimony

3 from [SIDNEY GOTTLIEB](?) that this identity stood for himself, dous
4 that refresh your recollection?

5 Mr. Tweedy. It would not surprise me. It was my assumption

6 that it probably was, but I could not recall, so I find in

7 other words, your explanation, I think, is what I would have

8 expected..

9 Mr. Baron. Do you have any independent recollection of

10 dispatching [SIDNEY GOTTLIEB](?) on a mission to the Congo?

11 Mr. Tweedy. I have the most unclear recollection that I

12 discussed with Mr. Bissell [SIDNEY GOTTLIEB'S](?) going to the

13 Congo. I have no recollections of any conversations I had

14 with Mr. [GOTTLIEBY](?) himself, although I am quite convinced I had

15 them.

16 In other words, it is inconceivable to me that he would have

17 gone to the Congo without seeing me. I cannot recall the

18 substance of our discussions, although I assume, and I imagins

19 Mr. Bissell must have shared in this, we discussed what it was
20 all about, the operational problems involved, so that he, in

21 turn, could be somewhat sensible about what his own supportin:

22 rola in this mignt be.

23 When I say this, it is a reasonable assumption but it is

24 not direct recollectior..
25 Mr. Baron. Does this cable indicate to you that you did
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Ares 207) 544-4000
TOP SECRET
14
1 dispatch [SIDNEY GOTTLIEB](?) to the Congo on a highly sensitive

2 mission?

3 Mr. Tweedy. It does indeed.

4 When you say I dispatched him, I would say it would be

5 more accurate to say that Mr. Bissell and I dispatched him.

6 am sure the authority for him going would have come from he

7 rather than ma, but we arranged the details.

8 Mr. Baron. Your comment about the fact that the authority

9 would have flowed from Mr. Bissell directy is borne out, is it

10 not, by Mr. Bissell's initials on this cable?

11 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, exactly.

12 Mr. Baron. Was that a fairly unusual practice, to have

13 both the DDP and the Chief of the Africa Division sign a

14 cable?

15 Mr. Tweedy. Quite common. Throughout the organization

16 on matters of either particular sensitivity or so important that

17 the DDP wished to be constantly informed about correspondence

18 on a subject, the Chief of the Division would originate and
19 send out cables and have it actually signed off by the DDP.

20 That was quite a common practice in the Agency.

21 Mr. Baron. Do you have a recollection, having seen this

22 document, of the fact that you set up a special channel using

23 the YOPROP sensitivity indicator?

24 Mr. Tweady. I did not recall [YOPROP](?), but I recall special

25 channels.
TOP SECRET

Phone Ares 202) 344-4000
TOP SECRET
15
1 Mr. Baron. This would have restricted all traffic from

2 yourself to Chief of Station, is that correct?

3 Mr. Tweedy. Yes. My Deputy would also have access to it.

4 in my absence.

5 Mr. Baron. That would be Glen Fields?

6 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

7 Mr. Baron. Would Richard Bissell have access to it?

8 Mr. Tweady. Indeed he would.

9 Mr. Baron. Allan Dulles also?
10 Mr. Twaady. Certainly if he wanted, absolutely.

11 Mr. Baron. Why was a special communications channel set
12 up in this cable?

13 Mr. Tweedy. Because of the sensitivity of the subject..
14 This, again, was a frequent procedure in the Agency on sensitive

15 matters. If one was about to mount a sensitive operation, one

16 of the first things normaliy done was to set up special

17 communications procedures so the dissemination of the messages

18 could be restricted to what was required.

19 Mr. Baron. In this case, the especially sensitive subject to

20 which you were restricting communications access was the elimi-

21 nation of Lumumba by one means or another?

22 Mr. Tweedy. That is correct..

23 Mr. Baron. What was the assignment tha Sidney Gottlie
24 was to explain to the Chief of Station wher, he arrived in the

25 Congo?
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
16
1 Mr. Tweedy. That, I do not recall. I can only assume
2 it that Sidney Gottlie[b(?)]would have discussed with the Chief of

3 Station instruments which TSD might have which could be of
4 assistance in an assassination attempt. I assumed he discussed

5 his inventory, whatever it might be, and the two presumably were

6 trying to come to some conclusions as to what might have the

7 bast chance or the most practical chance of being used.

8 This is my assumption. I think in this early stage, that

9 would have been the purpose of the exercise.

10 Mr. Baron. Let me represent to you the testimony of Sidney

11 [GOTTLIEB](?) about two conversations that he had at Headquarters

12 before he undertook the mission to the Congo in September of

13 1960.

14 First, when Dr. Gottlie looked at this cable and some
15 subsequent cables which we will discuss today, he said these

16 cables applied to himself. He confirmed the fact that he took

17 a trip to the Congo and arrived on Sentember 26th as is indicated
18 by a subsequent cable, and left on October 5th, as is indicated

19 by another cable.

20 Dr. [GOTTLIEB](?) said before he left the Con
before he left for the Congo
sorry,
he had & Conversation with you
21 and Glen Fields in which you instructed him to take a lathel

22 material to the Congo and give it to the Chief of Station,

23 with instructions to assassinate Lumumba if it were possible
24 and to instruct the Chief of Station in the technical means by
25 TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
17
1 which this lethal material could be administered through
2 Lumumba's food or toothpaste or something that he would ingest.
3 Mr. [GOTTLIEB](?) also testified that in that conversation you

4 indicated to him that these instructions were being given at
5 Richard Bissell's authority.

6 Did that conversation take place?
7 (Discussion off the record.)

8 Mr. Tweedy. His testimony does not basically refresh my
9 memory. The only aspect of it which I would find unrealistic is

10 that he had an instruction from me to tell the Chief of Station

11 to use this material and go ahead and assassinate Lumumba, as

12 if, i. effact, that is all the authority that was necessary.

13 To be frank, that does not make sense. The rest of it is

14 perfectly feasible. I do not recall it in the detail, but I

15 am not going to deny what [SID](?) said. I think his racollectior.

16 that I told him, in effect, to go to the Chief of Station and

17 sort of get the show on the road and use the poison and
18 assassinate Lumumba without any further ceremony is just not th

19 way it would have happened.

20 Mr. Baroг.. Why is that?
21 Mr. Tweady. For the simple reason that under no circumst2009

22 would that instruction have been given by me without reference.

23 to higher authority up through the chain of commar.d.

24 Mr. Baron. When you say reference to higher authority,

25 what do you medr.?
TOP SECRET

Phone Aras 2021 544-6000
TOP SECRET
18
1 Mr. Tweedy. My higher authority in the first instance

2 would be Mr. Bissell.

3 Mr. Baron. Dr. Gottlieb did testify
4 Mr. Tweedy. I understand.
5 Mr. Baron. that you referred in your conversation with

6 him to the fact that you had authority from Mr. Bissell for the
7 assignment you were giving to Gottlieb.

8 Mr. Tweedy. The only thing that Mr. Gottlieb, would disagree
9 on is that there would be no further reference, which his

10 statament implies from Leopoldville before they took any action

11 on this matter, in other words, take the final action on this
12 matter, and that was never a matter, to the best of my recollec-

13 tion, that was ever delegated by Mr. Bissell. In other words.
14 Mr. Bissell never said, look, you have the picture, go ahead

15 and do it in your own good time without any further reference

16 to me or anybody else, nor is the tenor of this correspondence

17 as I read it that way at all.

18 Mr. Baron. Do you recall if Mr. Bissell ever want as far

19 as telling you that if an opportunity arose to carry off the

20 assassination of Lumumba in a situation where it would be

21 practically impossible to confirm, that there was authority

22 for proceeding with the assassination with Headquarters, that

23 the Chief of Station would be under those circumstances,

24 authorized to proceed to assassinate Lumumba?

25 Mr. Tweedy. No, I do not.
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
19
1 Mr. Baron. Do you have a recollection about that one way

2 or the other?

3 Mr. Tweedy. I do not recall that he ever put it to ma

4 this way.

5 Mr. Baron. Let us then break down your statement about this

6 meeting with (Dr. Gottlieb into component parts.
7 You agree now, having heard Dr. Gottlieb's, testimony, that

8 it is true that you had asked (Dr. Gottlieb to go to the Congo?

9 Mr. Tweady. Indeed, as I assumad I had, yes.

10 Mr. Baron. It is also true that you knew that Dr. Gottlie

11 was to carry a lethal material to the Chief of Station in the

12 Congo?

13 Mr. Tweedy. If he says so, I do not disagree with him.

14 I do not frankly recall thet at this point, but I am perfectly

15 wadded to accept what he says.

16 Mr. Baron. Assuming, for the moment, that you would have

17 required the Chief of Station to check back with Headquarters

18 before he carried out an assassination mission, would it be

19 true that you assigned Dr. Gottligh the task of instructing
20 the Chief of Station to assassinete Lumumba on that basis?

21 Mr. Tweady. Dr. Gottlieb was the head of the Technical

22 Services Division, or whatever it was called in those days.

23 Let me jump in for a moment..

24 Mr. Baron. At this point, for about a year and a half, he was the

25 Science Advisor to Mr. Bissell, and he moved to Tachnical
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 2071544-6000
TOP SECRET
20
1 Services shortly thereafter.

2 Mr. Tweedy. The way you put it to me was that I instructed
3 [GOTTLIEB](?) to assassinate Lumumba. The answer to that is, I am

4 sure I never instructed [GOTTLIEB](?), to assassinate Lumumba. This
5 is the way you put it to me.

6 Mr. Baron. Lat. ma correct that..
7 What I meant to say was, would you have asked Gottlieb

8 to convey the instruction to the Chief of Station that he was
9 to assassinate Lumumba if he found a way to do it and if he

10 confirmed it with Headquarters?

11 Mr. Tweedy. My answer to that is almost certainly not.

12 That would have been covered in other correspondence, which I

13 think is demonstrated by these cables, to the Chief of Station
14 direct from me with authority of Mr. Bissell. I would not have

15 used, neither would Mr. Bissell, Mr. Gottlieb as the channel

16 for this instruction.

17 Mr. Baron. Dr. Gottlieb has also testified that, aside

18 from carrying the materials to the Chief of Station and

19 instructing in their use and giving him an instruction about

20 mission to assassirete Lumumba, that he had one further role

21 i:. the Congo; he was to serve as a technical advisor to the

22 Chief of Station on the feasibility of using these biological

23 substances to carry off the operation.

24 As [GOTTLIEB](?) put it, Gottlich was to stay down there for

25 a short period of time to determine the technical feasibility
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
21
1 of the operational plan that the Chief of Station might come

2 up with.

3 Mr. Tweedy. This seems quite reasonable to me. Presumably:
4 with his technical knowledge of the nature of these materials

5 he would be in a position to either comment on or advise the

6 Chief of Station as he attempted to put together some kind of

7 operation. That makes good sense to me.

8 He would require, basically, a technical advisor.

9 Mr. Baron. Dr Gottlieb also testified that the materials

10 ha took with him ware of a fairly short life. Their toxicity
11 would wane within a matter of waaks.

12 Given that bit of information to refresh your recollectie::,

13 does that make it more likely that [GOTTLIENB](?)was there, to aid

14 the Chief of Station in actually carrying off the administration

15 of these drugs, as opposed to giving him general instructior.s

16 in the use of such lethal substances?

17 Mr. Tweedy. I do not know really that I can comment on
18 thet. If the materials would deteriorate fast, the use of them,

19 if possible, I would stress the latter, would necessarily have

20 to be expeditied, but the overwhelming concern of Headquarters

21 and the field, again, demonstrated in this correspondence was

22 our concer.. that this thing could be done at all, that it be

23 done right, securely, and that the U.S. hand should be

24 Cor.Cealed.

25 If this ware at odds