AGENCY: SSCIA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10017
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 05-H-01

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCSGO
FROM : 
TO : 
TITLE :

Date: 08/04/95
Page : 1

DATE: 02/11/76
PAGES: 106
SUBJECTS: AMLASH
CIA
CASTRO, FIDEL

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/98
OPENING CRITERIA : 
COMMENTS: Box 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88608 Docld:32423405 Page 1

TOP SECRET
ORIGINAL
Vol
1of3
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorised Disclosure Subject
To Criminal Sanctions

The United States Senate R2574

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Senate SElect Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

Wednesday, February 11, 1976

Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003
(202) 544-6000

TOP SEC

TOP SECRET
CONTENTS

PAGE

1
2 TESTIMONY OF:
3
AMLASH Case Officer 3
4
5
6 EXHIBITS
70
7
AMLASH Case Officer Exhibit No. 1
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

TOP SECRET

410 First Street. S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Wednesday, February 11, 1976

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:20 o'clock
am., in Room 608, Carroll Arms Hotel, the Honorable Richard
S. Schweiker presiding.

Present: Senator Schweiker (presiding).

Staff: Paul Wallach, Ed Greissing, Jim Johnston, Dan Dwyer
and Frederick Baron, Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

PROCEEDINGS

Senator Schweiker. Will you stand and raise your right
hand.

Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to
give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
so help you God?"

AMLASH Case Officer. I do.

Mr. Johnston. First of all, sir, we'll start with some
procedural matters. I'm not going to ask you to state your
name for the record because we have agreed before beginning
here today that you would testify under an alias so as not to
jeopardize your ongoing activities.

Is that the way you understand our agreement?

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

TESTIMONY OF AMLASH CASE OFFICER

AMLASH Case Officer. Yes.

Mr. Johnston. Is that satisfactory to you?

AMLASH Case Officer. Yes.

Mr. Johnston. Now, you understand that at any time we
refer to your participation or your authorship of a document or
receipt of a document, we are prepared to substantiate the
reference that we are making, and we are not trying to avoid
proving the fact that it is indeed you that were involved in
the incident. It is simply because we were not able to use
your name.

AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

Mr. Johnston. Now, you've previously testified before this
Committee, and I assume you've had a copy of the Committee
rules, and we have another copy available in case you want to
refer to them.

And are you appearing here voluntarily today without
a counsel?

AMLASH Case Officer. Yes, I am.

Mr. Johnston. Do you understand that at any point during
this examination you are free to stop answering any questions
and request the advice of Counsel?

AMLASH Case Officer. I do.

Mr. Johnston. And do you understand as well that all your
constitutional rights are intact here before the Committee

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 including the Fifth Amendment rights to remain silent, if you
2 choose.

3 AMLASH Case Officer. I do.

4 Mr. Johnston. All right.

5 Let me state that the purpose of this interview is to
6 refine and clarify certain questions about the AMLASH operation

7 It is my understanding that you were the case officer on
8 the AMLASH operation from the time period, say, of the first
9 of September on through, for all relevant purposes, December '67,
10 and November '64, is that correct?

11 AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

12 Mr. Johnston. At this time you were a member of what was
13 called the Special Affairs Staff, is that correct?

14 AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

15 Mr. Johnston. And that's abbreviated SAS.

16 AMLASH Case Officer. Right.

17 Mr. Johnston. Would you describe your position in SAS
18 and your relationship to Mr. Fitzgerald, who was Chief of
19 SAS?

20 AMLASH Case Officer. I was a special assistant to Mr.
21 Fitzgerald, charged with the responsibility of attempting to
22 organize a military coup inside Cuba against Fidel Castro.

23 Mr. Johnston. Did you report directly to Mr. Fitzgerald
24 on your work?

25 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes, I did.

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Johnston. Was there anyone else knowledgeable in
2 SAS of what you were doing?

3 AMLASH Case Officer. Only the other people who were
4 involved working on the project.

5 Mr. Johnston. What was the relationship between SAS and
6 the Western Hemisphere Division under, at that time, I believe,
7 Mr. J. C. King?

8 AMLASH Case Officer. I don't recall exactly what the
9 organizational relationship was at that time. I do know that
10 we operated on a somewhat I wouldn't say autonomous basis
11 from the Division itself, but the chain of command was certainly
12 from Mr. Fitzgerald, not necessarily through the Division
13 Chief, but up to the DDP at that time.

14 Mr. Johnston. Who was Mr. Helms.

15 AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

16 Mr. Johnston. In other words, there could be direct
17 reporting from Mr. Fitzgerald to Mr. Helms.

18 AMLASH Case Officer. Oh, yes.

19 Mr. Johnston. Is it necessary that Mr. King was knowledgeable
20 of all operations of SAS?

21 AMLASH Case Officer. Not necessarily. I don't know if he
22 was kept fully advised of all the operations or not.

23 Mr. Johnston. Did he know generally what you were doing?

24 AMLASH Case Officer. I presume he did, yes.

25 Mr. Johnston. And how often did he and Mr. Fitzgerald

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 meet to coordinate. They do coordination of their work?

2 AMLASH Case Officer. I don't know. I wasn't involved
3 in that part of it.

4 Mr. Johnston. Was SAS targeted directly at Cuba, or
5 were there other countries under its jurisdiction?

6 AMLASH Case Officer. No. SAS was strictly a task force
7 set up to deal with the Cuban problem.

8 Mr. Johnston. And finally on this general matter, who
9 did who gave the counterintelligence support for SAS operations?

10 AMLASH Case Officer. We had a Counterintelligence Branch
11 within SAS.

12 Mr. Johnston. Who headed that in the fall of '63?

13 AMLASH Case Officer. I don't recall. There was a change.
14 I don't recall the name.

15 Mr. Johnston. Let me as I stated earlier, you of
16 course have testified before, and I have before me the
17 transcript and I'm not proposing really to trap you in any nature
18 with this transcript. However, there are some things that were
19 not asked before that I would like to clarify.

20 First of all, how and why was AMLASH first contacted to
21 set up the September meeting that you attended?

22 AMLASH Case Officer. He had been contacted the year before
23 in Helsinki, and we found out at that time that he was coming
24 out to a sporting event in the Western Hemisphere, so we went
25 down and contacted him.

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Johnston. In my review of the file and I don't think
2 we have the document here today, but my notes indicate there
3 was a cable from Langley to Rome on 19 June 1963, that is in
4 the AMLASH file.

5 AMLASH Case Officer. Would you repeat the question?

6 Mr. Johnston. In my review of the AMLASH file, there is
7 a cable from headquarters to Rome on 19 June 1963 which states
8 that AMWILIP,, who was your contact with AMLASH, had sent a letter
9 as part of "an activation effort to reluctant dragon."

10 I ask , do you have any recollection or any knowledge
11 that this was a sign to AMLASH that CIA was back in contact
12 with him or wanted to go back in contact with him?

13 AMLASH Case Officer. I can't comment on that because
14 I didn't get into the operation until September of '63, and
15 this took place before I became involved in that part of the
16 AMLASH operation.

17 Mr. Johnston. So in other words, you're saying you don't
18 really know who made the contact with AMLASH?

19 AMLASH Case Officer. We had contact with AMLASH from the
20 year before. He had been contacted by a CIA case officer in
21 Helsinki.

22 Mr. Johnston. In July and August, 1962.

23 AMLASH Case Officer. Right.

24 Mr. Johnston. Then he returned to Cuba.

25 AMLASH Case Officer. And this was the first time, to

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 the best of my knowledge, that he had come out from Cuba
2 since the Helsinki trip.

3 Mr. Johnston. In other words, you're not aware of any
4 prior contact between CIA or an intermediary and AMLASH?

5 AMLASH Case Officer. Not between that period of time.

6 Mr. Johnston. All right. You met with AMLASH in Brazil
7 on September 5th through 9th. I don't mean you specifically,
8 but the general meetings with AMLASH were in that time frame.
9 Is that your recollection?

10 AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

11 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall seeing a cable, or receiving
12 instructions from headquarters to the effect and this is
13 after your series of meetings instructions to the effect
14 that headquarters felt that AMLASH appeared hopeless as an
15 intelligence performer, and should be approached as a chief
16 conspirator allowed to recruit his own cohorts. He should
17 be urged to recruit a few trusted friends to assist him
18 initially in FI and ops reporting and then progress to sabotage
19 and more serious matters on a more orderly basis.

20 Do you recall seeing something to that effect after your
21 Brazil meetings with him?

22 AMLASH Case Officer. I don't specifically recall the cable
23 itself, but certainly that would be in line with the thinking
24 at that time.

25 If I may state, he was not considered a controlled asset,

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 shall we say, and it was somebody with whom we felt that we
2 could collaborate in organizing the internal group.

3 Mr.Johnston. But my summary of the cable would indicate
4 that on September 9th, or after your meetings in Brazil, you
5 really didn't think of him as a gatherer of information, but
6 as someone who wanted to go on to other things, as a
7 conspirator of some kind.

8 AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

9 Mr. Johnston. The file also has a document in it, the
10 AMLASH file, dated 16 September, marked OFPA 72775. I don't
11 really know what an OFPA is.

12 AMLASH Case Officer. It's a dispatch.

13 Mr. Johnston. In any event, it reports a transcript of
14 the conversation, and to the best of my ability to understand
15 the document, it's a conversation of an intercept in the Cuban
16 Embassycin Paris The document says "Mary: I don't want to
17 imagine things, but this thing of" AMLASH uses his real
18 name. I have sanitized this "Moreno. It is either a
19 tremendous secret or a top secret matter." And then there is an
20 unreadable portion, and then a word either "treason" or
21 "reason" I'm not sure what is referred to, and then a partici-
22 pant whose name is Betty says, "I believe it is a top secret
23 matter."

24 My question to you is, did you, in September of '63, know
25 about this intercept?

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 AMLASH Case Officer. I don't specifically recall today
2 that I would have known about it. I presume if we had it in
3 file, that I was working with it, that I would have seen it.

4 Mr. Johnston. Do you have any information about any recollec-
5 tion about something on this order?

6 AMLASH Case Officer. No.

7 Mr. Johnston. And assume that at least the portion I
8 quoted seems to reflect on the Cubans' view of AMLASH'S
9 activities in Paris.

10 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes, it may have. As I recall, I
11 think that he was also at that time I may be wrong, and we
12 would have to go back to the files to check, but he was rather
13 outspoken to some of his closer friends in the fact that he was
14 no longer happy with the revolution, with Castro.

15 Mr. Johnston. I don't want to dwell on this, if you don't
16 have a recollection, but this conversation seems to indicate
17 that the employees in the Cuban embassy think that AMLASH is
18 there on a top secret mission.

19 AMLASH Case Officer. Probably so because of his independent
20 way of comportment. He didn't answer to anybody.

21 Senator Schweiker. What was his role in government at
22 that point?

23 AMLASIH Case Officer. He was excuse me, this must have
24 been '63. He was a personal representative of Castro to the
25 games, first in Brazil, and I don't think he had a specific

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 post in '63, as I recall. He had been Deputy Minister of
2 Interior. He had been a military attache in Spain. I don't think
3 he had a specific post at that time.

4 Excuse me, if I may add just one more point. Before that he
5 had been President of the Student Federation at the University
6 of Havana. He may still have been in that post, or about the
7 time that he was getting out of it, and this is, I think, where
8 really the trouble between this particular fellow and the Castro
9 brothers more or less came to ahead.

10 Mr. Johnston. On the 19th of September, Jim Wave sent a
11 message to headquarters basically warning, giving a warning,
12 making the statement that there was an anti-Communist group in
13 Cuba, and the name AMLASH is part of that group, and it concluded
14 by saying that Fidel is allegedly aware of both the anti-Communist
15 group and a Communist group, and that he acts as a moderator
16 between them in order to maintain cohesion in the government of
17 Cuba.

18 Do you recall receiving that information?

19 AMLASH Case Officer. I don't recall specifically receiving
20 that information, but I do recall that at that time Fidel
21 Castro himself was talking about was concerned about a
22 Communist takeover of the revolution, and he did meet with the
23 subject and some other friends of his in order to prevent this.

24 Mr. Johnston. When was this?

25 AMLASH Case Officer. This was in the early '60s sometime.

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 Senator Schweiker. What year were you in?

2 Mr. Johnston. '63.

3 AMLASH Case Officer. This was before '63. This must have
4 been in '62.

5 Mr. Wallach. This is before his trip to the Soviet
6 Union?

7 Mr. Johnston. Before Castro's trip?

8 Mr. Wallach. Right.

9 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes.

10 MR. Johnston. The question being put is after your
11 meeting in Brazil with AMLASH, Jim Wave cabled headquarters that
12 AMLASH was part of a group of anti-Communist Cuban government
13 leaders and that Castro was aware of that fact.

14 AMLASH Case Officer. My answer to you is that he certainly
15 was because he had been talking with these people, including
16 AMLASH, a year before. Yes.

17 Senator Schweiker. Castro was aware that he was anti-
18 Communist?

19 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes, that he was one of the anti-
20 Communist group.

21 Senator Schweiker. Why would he be so trusted and be the
22 special representative at that point in time if he was known
23 as anti-Communist?

24 AMLASH Case Officer. Because of the relationship with
25 Castro. Castro himself had not declared his Communist, more or

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 less intentions, as of that time.

2 Senator Schweiker. Wait, this was after the Cuban missile
3 crisis. This was '63, and the Cuban missile crisis was '62.

4 I'm confused here.

5 AMLASH Case Officer. Let's go back to the dates here.

6 Senator Schweiker. The Jim Wave date is September 1963,
7 and he knows at this point, allegedly now, that this AMLASH
8 was a member of an anti-Communist group. I have trouble
9 reconciling that with not pinpointing AMLASH and his possible
10 subversive agent. I think that is what Jim is getting to.

11 AMLASH Case Officer. Again, my answer is I don't know
12 specifically why or what the origin of the '63 J. M. Wave
13 cable was.

14 My answer again to the question is that Castro, from his
15 previous knowledge, going back to '62, did know and had consulted
16 with this group of people of which AMLASH was one, who were the
17 group of Anti-Communist officers in the revolution.

18 Mr. Johnston. So

19 AMLASH Case Officer. I don't know why in '63 this report
20 would have come out, but it would confirm Castro's knowledge
21 of this group, yes.

22 Mr. Johnston. Let me move on into October. There was a
23 meeting with AMLASH.

24 Senator Schweiker. How long did he tolerate anti-Communist
25 officers in high positions in his government? I've got to

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 believe there's some cutoff here. I realize the uniqueness and
2 broadness of his support earlier, but it would just seem to me
3 that at some point he really had to weed out, nottnecessarily
4 weed out or be suspect of anti-Communist officers who had too
5 high decision making in his government, would he not, or am I
6 missing something?

7 AMLASH Case Officer. No, not really, because out of this
8 group that was mentioned, and with whom he himself discussed
9 the need in the early '60s to keep, say, the Communists out,
10 some of those officers are still in his goverment today.

11 Now, they may have changed, or Castro may have changed, but
12 he didn't purge all this group of officers. Maybe he won them
13 over, and if they are still there, evidently he has some
14 confidence in them.

15 Mr. Johnston. According to the file, there was a meeting on
16 October 5th, apparently, in Paris, and I'm not sure that you were
17 the case officer at that meeting, and the cable from Paris
18 sets the tone of that meeting as AMLASH apparently was trying
19 to get things off his chest in talking to you.

20 Were you the case officer at that meeting?

21 AMLASH Case Officer. I was the case officer during that
22 period of time.

23 Go into a little of the detail because we did talk about
24 these problems.

25 Mr. Johnston. There appeared from the file two meetings

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 in early October 1963, the first meeting on or about October
2 5th that AMLASH comes in and says I want to get things off my
3 chest, and seems to express great dissatisfaction with the
4 CIA's position.

5 Then there's a second meeting on October 13th or so where
6 he specifically asks to meet with Robert Kennedy, and you
7 previously testified about that second meeting.

8 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes.

9 Mr. Johnston. Now, the file indicates there was an
10 earlier meeting on October 5th, and AMLASH was complaining
11 apparently about the low level espionage matters that had been
12 discussed in Brazil, and implying that he had a more valuable
13 role to play, and the file says the case officer provided the
14 necessary assurances that his feelings were not in fact
15 true, and that his case was receiving the consideration at
16 the highest levels.

17 With this problem which had undoubtedly been bothering
18 AMLASH off his chest, a much more relaxed AMLASH departed,
19 stating his desire to return to Cuba to undertake the big
20 job.

21 Do you recall that meeting?

22 AMLASH Case Officer. I think you are getting those two
23 meetings mixed up. In other words, the later one, yes. I
24 was there and talking to him in the second meeting. In the
25 first meeting I don't recall precisely, but there could have

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 been a meeting with a contact in Paris, in other words, not a
2 case officer, but the contact we had in Paris. I don't remember
3 who that was, one of the officers there.

4 Mr. Johnston. In addition to you he was in contact with
5 AMLASH Case Officer. Only for purposes of contact. I mean,
6 only to make contact with me, not to carry on the case. But
7 he knew that the other officer was a friend of mine, and he
8 was in touch with him, and when he came to Paris he would get
9 in touch with him. So I would be notified.

10 Mr. Johnston. I think you have used his name in the
11 prior transcript, Fred Stent, the case officer?

12 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes, because he was the one who
13 furnished the quarters where we had the meetings.

14 Mr. Johnston. In furnishing the quarters, did you have a
15 taping system going as to the discussions that would take place?

16 AMLASH Case Officer. No, I don't believe we taped any of
17 those meetings?

18 Mr. Johnston. Is it procedure to tape meetings with
19 Agents?

20 AMLASH Case Officer. Sometimes. It is not a standard
21 procedure. Sometimes it is not physically possible.

22 Mr. Johnston. Let me go back into this meeting of October
23 5th, which you don't recall that you were at this meeting, is
24 that correct?

25 AMLASH Case Officer. There probably could have been the

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 meeting when he first arrived in Paris, and the meeting that he
2 had I don't recall specifically.

3 I do recall, if I may, I do recall that he said he was
4 unhappy because of the requirements, the intelligence require-
5 ments that we had levied on him in Brazil, and it is true that
6 his position was at that time, even in Brazil, and later in
7 Paris, that he was not disposed to cooperate just to furnish
8 intelligence. In other words, he felt that he wanted to do
9 something about the removal of Castro but was not just prepared
10 to keep us advised as to what was going on. He recognized that
11 this was certainly part of a needed operation, but he did not
12 consider himself just as a provider of information.

13 Mr. Johnston. Let me go off the record for a minute
14 because I want to use a code name.

15 (Discussion off the record.)

16 Mr. Johnston. Having mentioned the code name that is
17 used in this cable, you now recall you were at the 5 October
18 meeting?

19 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes.

20 Mr. Johnston. And the cable, you can look at it, indicates
21 that AMLASH was in a confessional mood.

22 My question to you is, after recalling that meeting, was
23 it basically one where he was expressing his concern about
24 the CIA role for him?

25 Mr. Johnston. He was expressing his concern for what?

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Johnston. The CIA's plans for using him.

2 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes. He was concerned as to how and
3 in what way he was to cooperate with CIA. He was also and
4 we must underline this, right from the beginning, dubious
5 as to our resolve to really follow through on initiating a
6 coup against Castro.

7 Mr. Johnston. Is the cable correct in stating that he was
8 assured that his case was receiving consideration at the
9 highest levels?

10 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes.

11 Mr. Johnston. Was the word "highest level" used, or was
12 a name used?

13 AMLASH Case Officer. Highest levels, but at that stage
14 of the game he knew he was talking to CIA, so highest levels
15 in CIA is what was meant at that particular time.

16 Mr. Johnston. That's the word you used?

17 You didn't say Director McCone?

18 AMLASH Case Officer. I did not use names, no.

19 Mr. Johnston. On October 5th, you reassured him that his
20 consideration, that his case was receiving consideration at
21 least at the highest levels of CIA, and the cable reflects
22 that when he left that meeting he seemed much more relaxed about
23 the case.

24 Is that an accurate portrayal of the meeting?

25 AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Johnston. As I mentioned, there was another meeting
2 on or about October 13th, where, as I understand it, AMLASH
3 made his demand or his request to meet with Robert Kennedy, and
4 he made that request to meet with Kennedy by name.

5 Is that correct?

6 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes, he did.

7 Well, he said somebody such as, somebody high in the
8 administration, again, to receive the assurances that we were
9 prepared to that we were serious about developing and
10 organizing a coup.

11 Mr. Johnston. After that meeting, you were recalled to
12 Langley for discussions, is that correct?

13 AMLASH Case Officer. I was traveling back and forth
14 between Paris and Langley, yes. I don't recall if I was
15 recalled at that particular time, but I would go there I
16 was TDY.

17 Mr. Johnston. I want to set the stage. There is a
18 message from the Director, 75683, to London, directing you to
19 return to headquarters for discussion of all facets of the
20 case.

21 This is after you reported that AMLASH wants to meet
22 with someone like Robert Kennedy.

23 Do you recall that flow of events?

24 AMLASH Case Officer. Yes.

25 Mr. Johnston. What discussions did you have at Langley,

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 and I don't want to go through your previous testimony again,
2 but basically are we correct in understanding that out of the
3 discussions at Langley came a decision to go to Paris with
4 Mr. Fitzgerald representing himself as a personal representative
5 of Robert Kennedy?

6 AMLASH Case Officer. That's right.

7 Mr. Johnston. Then you met on October 29, according to
8 the file, with AMLASH, Mr. Fitzgerald, in Paris.

9 Is that correct?

10 AMLASH Case Officer. Excuse me. Can I go off the
11 record?

12 (Discussion off the record.)

13 Mr. Wallach. I think you stated that AMLASH said that he
14 would like to meet with one of the U.S. leaders such as
15 Robert Kennedy?

16 AMLASH Case Officer. A high representative in the U.S.
17 Government.

18 Mr. Wallach. Did he mention any other names that you
19 recall?

20 AMLASH Case Officer. No, not that I recall.

21 Mr. Wallach. Just Robert Kennedy?

22 AMLASH Case Officer. Such as Robert Kennedy.

23 Mr. Wallach. Did AMLASH, to the best of your knowledge,
24 from what he told you, know about any prior assassination
25 attempts that had been run by the U.S.?

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 AMLASH Case Officer. No.

2 Mr. Wallach. Did he have any reason to believe that Robert
3 Kennedy had been involved with any of the sabotage operations
4 as contrasted with any assassination attempts?

5 AMLASH Case Officer. If he knew, he never mentioned it to
6 me. We never discussed that.

7 Mr. Wallach. In other words, you didn't say to him,
8 how did you know that Robert Kennedy or why did you pick
9 Robert Kennedy.

10 AMLASH Case Officer. No, not at all. I mean, it's a
11 perfectly, I think, logical name to have been mentioned at
12 that time, because by him, since he was the President's brother
13 and since he was the Attorney General, he wanted somebody high
14 in the Government; at one time he had mentioned the President,
15 you know, I want to talk to the President.

16 Mr. Wallach. It seems strange to me he didn't pick the
17 Secretary of State or someone like that.

18 AMLASH Case Officer. No.

19 Mr. Wallach. What I'm trying to get at

20 AMLASII Case Officer. He wanted somebody directly to the
21 President. In other words, he wanted the assurances
22 from the highest authority, again, from the President of
23 the United States.

24 Mr. Wallach. What I'm trying to get at is we, from our
25 examination of the alleged assassination attempts, have also

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 gone into the sabotage attempts, MONGOOSE, etc, and found out
2 that Bobby Kennedy did play a role in the sabotage attempts.

3 What I'm trying to get from you is your understanding of
4 whether or not AMLASH, from his Cuban side, knew that the
5 Kennedy's had played that role, and would necessarily say I want
6 to talk to Robert Kennedy for that reason.

7 AMLASH Case Officer. No. He never mentioned it, not at
8 all in any way.

9 Mr. Johnston. Let me finally go to the October 29th meeting,
10 and before we went on the record this morning, you were
11 explaining to us how you characterized the AMLASH operation.
12 Would you repeat in summary form what you told us before
13 we went on the record?

14 AMLASH Case Officer. The operation was never conceived,
15 certainly, carried out during the period I was associated with
16 it, but was never conceived as an assassination plot. It was
17 conceived as a coup in order to organize a military group
18 within Cuba to overthrow Castro.

19 Mr. Johnston. Did you have the understanding that if
20 necessary AMLASH was proposing to assassinate the Castro
21 brothers?

22 AMLASH Case Officer. Assassination was not a subject of
23 discussion that came up at every meeting or contact that we
24 had with AMLASH. It was so stated by him that he felt that
25 the only way to initiate a coup in Cuba was to direct the

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 first blow at the leadership.

2 Since we were not willing to discuss specifically eliminating
3 Castro, this was never discussed in terms of the operation.
4 We certainly had no doubt that in his mind this was the only
5 way to go about it.

6 Mr. Johnston. And you dealt with him on that basis?

7 AMLASH Case Officer. Trying to temporize this, and if
8 possible we were not looking for a bloody coup at that time,
9 planning a bloody coup inside Cuba, but we were trying to
10 certainly get him to think in terms of much more than just the
11 elimination of the leadership.

12 Mr. Johnston. And to broaden it.

13 AMLASH Case Officer. To broaden it into a coup. Our
14 interest was the coup, not the specifics of how he got it
15 started.

16 Mr. Johnston. You were concerned about whether his
17 plans were realistic, weren't you?

18 AMLASH Case Officer. Very definitely, yes.

19 Senator Schweiker. Did you personally evaluate AMLASH
20 as fully capable of leading a coup and being able to implement
21 it and carry it out if support were given?

22 How did you evaluate AMLASH?

23 As I understand from the dialogue here, and also from
24 reading a summary of these, at first the operations talk was
25 fairly low level sabotage, which he out of hand rejected, and

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

1 he pictured himself as a leader of a top level effort on the
2 condition that it had assurances of government support and top
3 level support here.

4 Now, I guess my question to you is, how, as case officer,
5 did you evaluate his capability? Did you evaluate him as
6 someone who could lead a coup and who would, that our government
7 could put trust in, faith in in terms of his ability to carry it
8 out or not?

9 AMLASH Case Officer. At that time we did not evaluate
10 him as the