176-10037-10453
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10453
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Information Report Re: Views
DATE: 8/14/1962
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 8/1/62-
8/14/62. Box 6.

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Vietnam
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18,
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
RETAIN OR DESTROY
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM HOW BDREPORT NO.TDCSDB-3/651,039
SUBJECT VIEWS OF BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH DATE DISTR. 14 AUGUST 1962
VIETNAM, H.A.F. HOHLER, ON A NEUTRALIST BUN
DEB SOLUTION FOR SOUTH VIETNAM TEL/DEAL PRECEDENCE ROUTINE KAYSEN
KILDUFF
DATE OF EARLY AUGUST 1962 REFERENCES HOGE ELGON 43629 ERSEN
INFO. SCHLESING
PLACE & SAIGON (7 AUGUST-1962) DYLINO INVI 11 12 2002 100 TAYLOR
DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW. FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7782 FODDESTA
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE CAN INDEPENDENT VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS; FROM ANOTHER EN
VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST.
APPRAISAL THOUGH IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE STATEMENTS SET FORTH IN THE REPORT WERE MADE AS
INDICATED, IT IS CONSIDERED DOUBTFUL THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER ACTUALLY HOLDS THE VIEWS
ATTRIBUTED TO HIM.
THE BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH VIETNAM, H.A.F. HOHLER, TOLD A VIETNAMESE
JOURNALIST 2 AUGUST 1962 THAT HE HAD BEEN READING SOME OF THE JOURNALIST’S ARTICLES
AND WAS PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN A LATE JUNE ARTICLE ON THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE
VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS AND THE SOVIETS OVER NORTH VIETNAM. AFTER DISCUSSING THESE
DIFFERENCES AT LENGTH, THE AMBASSADOR STATED HIS BELIEF THAT, A THIRD FORCE IN VIETNAM
WAS NOT ONLY POSSIBLE, BUT ACTUALLY EXISTS, AND THAT SUCH A THIRD FORCE IN NORTH VIETNAM,
COMBINED WITH NEUTRALIST ELEMENTS IN SOUTH VIETNAM, IS THE ONLY HOPE FOR VIETNAM.
HOHLER EMPHASIZED THAT THE ONLY SOLUTION FOR SOUTH VIETNAM IS A NEUTRALIST COALITION
SIMILAR TO OLEICES VI THE BRITISH ENDESA IN AVION WHERE

Excluded from automatic
declassification
review for downgrading and
THE SAME CONVISTION LOOR SUCRELY VA THE HOME OF GELES

THE ATTOMITE CLASSIFICATION LASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ATD DIA EX

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT ELEGRAM
SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
ONLY TDCS DB-3/651,039
# 43629
THAT WORKED OUT FOR LAOS. THE AMBASSADOR SAID THAT THE AMERICANS
ARE NOT TRAINED IN GUERILLA WARFARE" AND "CAN NOT WIN THE WAR" AGAINST
THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC) IN SOUTH-VIETNAM.

2. THE CONVERSATION TOOK PLACE AT THE HOME OF PETER ROBERTS,
INFORMATION OFFICER AT THE BRITISH EMBASSY IN SAIGON, WHERE
JOURNALIST
ROBERTS ARRANGED A MEETING BETWEEN THE AND AMBASSADOR HOHLER
JOURNALIST
THE HAS KNOWN ROBERTS FOR SOMETIME THROUGH PRESS CONFERENCES A
AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS AMONG JOURNALISTS. THE WAS SURPRISED TO LEARN
THAT ROBERTS THAD ARRANGED THEY MEETING AT THE REQUEST
AMBASSADOR WHO HADO EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO TALK WITH THE
JOURNALIST
EITHER THE ROBERTS HAD MUCH OPPORTUNITY TO STATE
JOURNALIST.
THE REVIEW DURING THE CONVERSATION THE ASSURED THE AMBASSADOR
THAT, IF ARE FROM BEING NEUTRALIST MINDED, HE FEARS NEUTRAL ISM MORE
SOUTH VIETNAM MORE THAN ANY OTHER SOLUTION. SINCE HE BELIEVES
INDICATED IN CONSIDERED MENTIONS CITA TAHTA F
NEUTRALISM TO BE NO MORE THAN MAJOR STEP TOWARD ULTIMATE TAKEOVER
AND CONTROL BY THE COMMUNIST. ROBERTS POINTEDLY DISAGREED
WITH AMBASSADOR HOHLER'S STATEMENT THAT THERE IS NO CHANCE OF
BEVK
WINNING THE WAR IN SOUTH VIETNAM, INDICATING THAT IT IS MUCH TOO
TO MAKE SUCH A BLUNT STATEMENT, ALLUDING TO THE HUGE EFFORTS UNDER
UNDER WAY AND THE GAINS ALREADY APPARENT. ROBERTS DID SAY,
HOWEVER, THAT THE SURFACING OF THE OPERATIONS IN NORTH VIETNAMESE-BASED
NGHE AN AND HOA BINH SHOULD DEMONSTRATE TO THE
AMERICANS AND TO THE GOVERNMENT/VIETNAM THE FUTILITY OF SUCH OPERATIONS

SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
(When-Filled-In)

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
TDCS DB-3/651,039
# 43629
PAGE 3
ROBERTS ALSO COMMENTED THAT HE WAS SURPRISED AT THE FAILURE
OF THE VC TO REACT EARLIER IN THE PROPAGANDA FIELD TO OBVIOUSLY
EXPLOITABLE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM
AND THE AMERICANS.
JOURNALIST
THE SAID THAT HE THINKS THE ARTICLE THAT CAUGHT
THE INTEREST OF AMBASSADOR HOHLER/ ONE DATELINED SAIGON, 29 JUNE 1962,
APPEARING IN AN EARLY ISSUE OF THE PHILIPPINE HERALD ENTITLED
INTRA-PARTY RIFT IN RED NORTH VIETNAM MOSCOW HAS AN EDGE ON PEIPING?"
JOURNALIST,
THE SAID THAT HE BELIEVED THAT THE AMBASSADOR HAD READ OUT OF THE CONTEXT
AND MISINTERPRETED VARIOUS STATEMENTS IN THE ARTICLE TO WHICH HE REFERRED,
JOURNALIST
THE
LED HIM TO CONSIDER THEM NEUTRALIST! THE STATEMENTS BELIEVED
INVOLVED, WHICH APPEAR IN LAST PARAGRAPH OF THE ARTICLE, ARE
AS FOLLOWS STUDENTS OF COMMUNIST NORTH VIETNAM WERE
OF AGREEMENT THAT THE REPORTED GAINS AT LEAST FOR THE TIME
BEING, BY THE PRO SOVIET GROUP, WILL EXERT A TEMPERATE INFLUENCE
ONE THE COURSE OF EVENTS. UNLESS THE SCALES ARE TURNED BY PEIPING
IN FAVOR OF ITS PUPPETS. AND IF THE FREE WORLD KNOWS HOW TO CASH
IN ON THE RED DISPUTE, THE CHANCES WERE NOT DISMISSED OF OR LONGER
TRUCE IN EVEN OF A POLITICAL
SOLUTION TO EMBATTLED VIETNAM.
THE COMMENT IN A LATE JULY CONVERSATION WITH AN
AMERICAN OBSERVER, THE COUNSELLOR OF THE BRITISH EMBASSY IN
SAIGON CORITA BURROWS ATTACKED THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, STATING THAT

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/651,039

SECRET
(When Filled in).
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
ONLY
TDCS DB-3/651,039
# 43629
PAGE 4
THERE COULD BE NO HOPE OF PROGRESS AGAINST THE VC
UNLESS DIEM WERE REMOVED. IN CRITICIZING THE
ILLIBERALITY OF THE DIEM REGIME, BURROWS APPLIED STANDARDS
OF CRITICISM THAT EVEN THE MOST ADVANCED WESTERN DEMOCRACY WOULD
FAILE TO MEET. DURING THE SAME CONVERSATION, COLONEL HENRY LEE,
MILITARY ATTACHE TO THE BRITISH EMBASSY, EXPRESSED HIS OPINION
THAT THE WAR AGAINST THE VC WAS NOT PROCEEDING FAVORABLY FROM
THE WESTERN POINT OF VIEW. APPEARED CRITICAL OF DIEM AND
SEEMED INCLINED TOWARD A MILITARY JUNTANE POSSIBLY UNDER
MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VĂN MINH.

FIELD COMMENT OF COURSE OF COMMUNIST HOW HE HAS BEEN AN
TO SOUTH VIETNAM,
FREDERICK AUGUST
ON 8 AUGUST THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER
HAS NEVER GIVER THE SLIGHTEST INDICATION THAT HE HOLDS THE
VIEWS ATTRIBUTED TO IN THIS REPORT. ON 8 AUGUST, AMBASSADOR
HOHLER TOOK A COMPLETELY CONTRARY LINE IN A DISCUSSION WITH
AMBASSADOR EXPRESSING OPTIMISM REGARDING THE PROSPECTS
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM. AMBASSADOR NOLTING STATES THAT HE
BELIEVED THAT THE INFORMATION SHOULD BE TREATED WITH GREAT
RESERVE, AND WITH THE POSSIBILITY IN MIND THAT IT MAY REPRESENT
A DELIBERATE ATTEMPT TO CREATE MISTRUST BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND GREAT BRITAIN)
THE FIELD COMMENT NGO DINH NHƯ BROTHER AND POLITICAL
PRESIDENT, TOLD AN AMERICAN OBSERVER

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
(When Filled In)
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
ONLY
TDCSDB-3/651,039
# 43629
PAGE 5
ON 8 AUGUST THAT, WHILE HE CONSIDERS FRENCH POLICY BOTH IN PARIS
AND IN SAIGON TO HAVE AS ITS. OBJECTIVE THE NEUTRALIZATION OF
SOUTH VIETNAM AND SOUTHEAST ASIA, HE FEELS THAT THE BRITISH
HAVE A CONTRARY POLICY MORE SIMILAR TO THAT OF THE US NHƯ
SAID THAT HE HAS HAD NO INDICATIONS THAT CAUSE HIM CONCERN WITH
RESPECT TO THE BRITISH ROLE IN SOUTH VIETNAM, AND INITIATED THE COMMENT
THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER HAD SAID TO HIM RECENTLY THAT AN INTER-
NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SOUTH VIETNAM OR THE NEUTRALIZATION OF
SOUTH VIETNAM WAS "UNTHINKABLE.").
8. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (AMBASSADOR ONLY), CINCPAC PACFLT PACAF ARPAC.
END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION, CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
