176-10036-10139
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10139
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 10/15/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63, CIA
Reports. Box 2

sunnized via boill Kils 1/15

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by low.

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/562,014

SUBJECT RECOMMENDATION BY CABINET OFFICERS THAT DATE DISTR. 15 OCTOBER 1963.
NHƯ BE MADE PRIME MINISTER

PRECEDENCE ROUT INE

DATE OF EARLY OCTOBER 1963 REFERENCES IN 39851
INFO.

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (8 OCTOBER 1963)
DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9764
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE A WESTERN BUSINESSMAN (B) WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN VIETNAMESE POLITICAL CIRCLES,
FROM CUONG.
APPRAISAL: THE CABINET OFFICERS MAY HAVE MADE SUCH A RECOMMENDAT ION.

1. SUMMARY, ON 8 OCTOBER 1963 NGUYEN HOANG CUONG,

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL, SAID THAT

ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT MOUYEN NGOC THO TOLD HIM THAT AT A

MEETING OF CABINET OFFICERS IN EARLY OCTOBER IT WAS DECIDED TO

RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM THAT NGO DINH NHU BE APPOINTED

PRIME MINISTER. CUONG SAID THAT THIS PROPOSAL WOULD REQUIRE A

CONST I TUTIONAL AMENDMENT WHICH WOULD BE VOTED BY THE NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY WITHOUT DIFFICULTY.

2. ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT THO TOLD CUONG THAT IN EARLY

OCTOBER HE HAD CALLED A MEETING OF ALL CABINET MEMBERS TO

CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS GROUP I
Excluded from automaτις
downgrading and
declassification
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR ODT 00 EXO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM IKA OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS, (15-20)
4-63

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS IN 39851
CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN) NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/562,014 PAGE2

DISCUSS THE STATUS OF NGO DINH NHU IN THE GOVERNMENT. THO
SAID THAT THE CABINET DECIDED TO RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM THAT
NHU BE APPOINTED PRIME MINISTER, REASONING THAT IF THE PRESIDENT
DID NOT INTEND TO REDUCE NHU'S INFLUENCE IN GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS,
THE LATTER'S APPOINTMENT TO AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT POST WOULD
AT LEAST MAKE HIM ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS ACTIONS.

2. ON 8 OCTOBER CUONG SAID THAT IF THE PRESIDENT ACCEPTED
THIS SUGGESTION, A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT WOULD BE REQUIRED BUT
THAT THIS WOULD POSE NO PROBLEM AS THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY WOULD
VOTE THE CHANGE WITHOUT DIFFICULTY.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM
USIS 9TH FLD STA 2ND AIR DIV. CINPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
(WHEN FILLED IN) NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FORM IK-1 USE PREVIOUS MFG. 2-63 (15-20-44-4
1-63 EDITIONS :

CONUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
