178-10002-10215
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/31/2017

Agency Information

AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10002-10215
RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: DEPOSITION OF (A CIA EMPLOYEE)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 04/16/1975
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CUBAN EXILES
FITZGERALD, DESMOND
STURGIS, FRANK
HUNT, E. HOWARD
KENNEDY, ROBERT F.
ORGANIZED CRIME
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
STURBITTS, WILLIAM
GIANCANA, SAM
DOCUMENT TYPE: DEPOSITION
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; IB; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/13/2001

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Selected pages from deposition. Full document is number 1781000210091.

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 1

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

SECRET

1 CONTEN Examination by Counsel
For the Commission
2 Deposition of
3 William C. Sturbitts 2
4
5 (AFTERNOON SESSION Page 58)
6 William C. Sturbitts (Resumed) 58
7
8 1
9 178-10002-10091
10 {
11
12 178-10002-10215
13
14
15
16 178-10002-10279
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25 Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32275518 Page 2

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
SECRET

1 PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION
ON CIA ACTIVITIES
2
3 Langley, Virginia
4 Wednesday, April 16, 1975
5 Deposition of WILLIAM C. STURBITTS, called for
6 examination by Counsel for the Commission on CIA Activities,
7 the witness being duly sworn by Thomas C. Hogan, a Notary
8 Public in and for the State of Virginia, in the offices of the
9 Central Intelligence Agency, Langley, Virginia, at 9:50
10 o'clock a.m., on Wednesday, April 16, 1975, the proceedings
11 being taken down in stenotype by Ruth G. McClenning, and
12 transcribed under her direction.
13
14 APPEARANCES:
15 On behalf of the Commission:
16 GEORGE MANFREDI, ESQ.,
17 ROBERT B. OLSEN, ESQ.
18
19
20
21
22
23
24 Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
25

NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 3

SECRET

1 PROCEEDINGS
2 Thereupon,
3
4 WILLIAM C. STURBITTS,
called as a witness by Counsel for the Commission on CIA
5 Activities, and having been first duly sworn by the Notary
6 Public, was examined and testified as follows:
7 EXAMINATION BY COUNSEL FOR THE COMMISSION
8 BY MR. MANFREDI:
9 Q Mr. Sturbitts, will you state your full name for the
10 record?
11 A William C. Sturbitts.
12 Q Mr. Sturbitts, do you recall when we spoke some
13 weeks ago you signed a document entitled, "Advice and
14 Waiver"?
15 A Right.
16 Q You understand that document is still in effect?
17 A Sure.
18 Q Mr. Sturbitts, by whom are you currently employed?
19 A You mean the Agency or
20 Q That is right.
21 A Central Intelligence Agency.
22 Q And what is your current position with the Agency?
23 A I am a Special Assistant, Latin America, for
24 Economic Intelligence Collection and Operations.
25 Q And would you briefly review for me the history of

SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 4
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C.. 20003
SECRET

1 your employment with the Agency?
2 A When I first came in I was in the Intelligence
3 Directorate for approximately ten years and I was put on special
4 detail, special indefinite detail, in the Deputy Director, Plans,
5 which is now the Directorate of Operations.
6 Q What year were you put on that detail?
7 A I guess it was 1964, January, I believe.
8 Q And what did that detail involve?
9 A Cuban operations, economic warfare.
10 Q And how long were you on that detail?
11 A I was in the Cuban operations for nine years.
12 Q Between 1964 and. 1973?
13 A (Nods in affirmative.)
14 Q And in 1973 did you assume your current position?
15 A Yes, January.
16 Q Now, while you were on special detail to the DOD?
17 A Yes.
18 Q Were you stationed in Washington?
19 A Yes.
20 Q And did you commute with some frequency to Miami?
21 A Yes.
22 Q Were your activities in Miami in any way connected
23 with the operations of the Miami Station?
24 A In some way. My responsibilities were worldwide.
25 I took temporary duty predominantly in Europe, and then Miami.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 5
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
4101 st Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
SECRET

1 Most of my operations were run out of Europe.
2 Q Run out of
3 A Europe. Some were run out of Miami but the big ones
4 were run out of Europe.
5 Q Well, in the course of your activities with respect
6 to Cuba did you have occasion to become familiar with the
7 operations of the Miami base?
8 A Yes.
9 Q And the situation in the Cuban community in Miami?
10 A Yes, sir.
11 Q During the nine years you were with DDO's Cuban
12 operations, who was who were the chiefs of the Miami
13 Station?
14: A I think in 1963 Ted Shackley was the Chief and he
15 was followed by I can't think of his name. I should know
16 it. Well, I will come back to that.
17
18 Q Then, the next Chief of Station was Paul Henze.
What years was he Chief?
19 A I think Paul was there about a year and a half. He
20. left in 1968 when we reduced the size of the Station. Let's
21 say Henze was there from 1966 to 1968. And then Jake Esterline.
22 He was Chief of Station from 1968 to 1973.
23 Q Now, what was the formal title of the group to which
24 you were assigned for the 9-year period?
25 A Well, when I first came in it was known as the

SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 6
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
SECRET

1 Special Activities Staff. It was headed by Desmond Fitzgerald.
2 And then, I believe after that it became the Cuban Operations
3 Group.
4 Q Now, was this a special group within the DDO or was
5 it attached to one of the area divisions?
6 A No. Following the Bay of Pigs, they created a thing
7 called Task Force W which was headed by Bill Harvey. And
8 that when Harvey left, he went to Chief of Station, Rome,
9 and Fitzgerald took over, it became Special Activities Staff.
10 It wasn't attached to anything except it reported to the
:
11 Deputy Director, Plans.
12 Q And that was Mr. Karamessines?
13 A Yes. Well, it was Helms at that time back when it
14 was first created. Helms was DDP at that time.
15. Q And Task Force W was created immediately after the
16 Bay of Pigs?.
17 A Well, not immediately. I think sometime around
18: in the Bay of Pigs was in April. I think this was created in
19 September, something like that, 1961.
20 Q And that subsequently became the Special Activities
21 Staff?
22: A Special Activities Staff and consequently became the
23 Cuban Operations Group. As the Cuban Operations Group it went
24 back into the Western Hemisphere Division.
25 Q And what was the date of that reorganization?

SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 7
!
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

410 Fast Sheet, S.E., Washington, DC. 2000.1
SECRET

1 A Well, let's see. I would say that was probably around
2 1965 because Fitzgerald then became Chief, W.H., and then
3 later DDP.
4 Q Now, Mr.Harvey do you recall what position Mr.
5 Harvey held after he left Task Force W?
6 A Yes. He was Chief of Station, Rome.
7 Q And is he still with the Agency?
8 A Oh, no. He retired a long time ago.
9 Q Do you know where he lives at the present time?
10 A Frankly, I don't. I have an idea where he lives.
11
12 He went to work for a friend of mine who had a law firm.
Harvey is a lawyer.
13 Q Indianapolis area?
A
14 Yes, some place around there. It is in the midwest,
Indiana.
15 Q What was the role that was assigned to Task Force
16 W?
17 A It was the overall Cuban operations.
18 Q Did the Miami when was the Miami Station estab-
19 lished?
20 A Well, I think they had a forward operatio-s base down
21 there about 1960 which was small, in Coral Gables.
22 Q This was, then, prior to the Bay of Pigs?
23 A Oh, yes.
24 Q Now, in addition to Task Force W, was the Miami
25

SECRET
:
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 8

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

SECRET

1 Station running any operations against Cuba?
2 A You mean prior to the Bay of Pigs?
3 Q Yes.
4 A I really don't know. It was a small it was a
5 forward base and it was more or less as I recall, a support type
6 thing.
7 :: Q Well, after the Bay of Pigs when Task Force W was
8 established, did it have sole responsibility for Cuban
9: operations?
1C A Yes.
11 Q Or was that shared with the Miami base, Miami
12 Station?
i
13 A No. The Miami Station was under Task Force W.
14 Q All right. Would that also be true of the Special
15 .: Activities Staff, the Cuban Operations Group?
:
16 A Right, except that at the present time the Station
:
17 has no Cuban operations.
18 Q I understand that. When were Cuban operations termi-
19 nated?
20 A At the Station? Let's see. Sternfield went down
i
21. there in 1972. It was during fiscal year '72. I think it was
22 in early 1973. It was a gradual reduction.
23 Q And have those operations been terminated entirely
24 or are they now run out of the Washington area?
25 A All Cuban operations are run out of Washington.

SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 9
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
41010 S.E., Washington, DC. 20003
SECRET

1 There are no more paramilitary operations, that type of thing.
2 Q But there are some Cuban operations being run out of
3 the Washington area?
4 A Right.
5 Q Is that correct?
6 A Right. Worldwide.
:
75 Q Mr.Sturbitts, in the last couple of weeks you may
8 have seen some allegations in the press about possible assassina-
9 tion attempts that have been mounted or alleged assassination
10 attempts that have been mounted
11 A Right.
12 Q against Fidel Castro. In the course of your
WARD & PAUL
13 activities with respect to Cuba, did you ever learn of any such
14 attempts?
15 A Well, let me answer it this way. I wouldn't say
16: attempts. I know there was discussion. "Attempts" is too
17 strong a word.
18 Q Well, can you place in time your first knowledge of
19: any such discussions?
410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
20. A Well, the first knowledge I had of any discussions,
21 I was on TDY and this was October, November, 1963, with Fitzgerald
22 in Paris. And I knew that he was going to meet let me put
23 it another way. I had overheard that discussions were going on
24 with a member of Castro's military but that he wanted, as
25 I recall, he wanted some British I mean Belgian rifles and
:
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 10
==End of OCR for page 10==
WARD & PAUL
410 fast Steel, S.E., Was D.C. 20003

NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 11
1 a telescopic sight.
2 Q Who wanted them?
5