it

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10447
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements. All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC
2107 Note). Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 1

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10447

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 06/27/77
PAGES:7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
ISRAEL, MAURICE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
Box 2.

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 2

November 15, 1978

United States House of Representatives
Select Committee on Assassinations
Personnel Office
Washington, D. C.
Re: Maurice Israel
SSN: 128-20-8996

Dear Sirs:
The above-named individual has stated on an employment
application to the City of New York that he was employed by you
from June, 1977 to March, 1978 and an Investigator.
Would you kindly confirm this information in the space
provided on this letter and return it to me at your earliest
convenience. Thank you for your cooperation.

Very truly yours,
Stanley N. Lupkin
Commissioner

By:
Mildred Houston
Director, Background
Investigation Section

The above information is correct: YES NO ( ) see remarks.
Employment was terminated voluntarily: YES NO ( ) see remarks.

Remarks:

11-20-78
Date
Signature
NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)
Effective Date
Maurice Israel 6/27/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
128 20 8996 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Investigator $24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee Authority-H Res 465 of 95th Congress

3 Joint Committee

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5. U.S.C 3110(b); prohibiting the employment of
relatives

Date June 28 1977

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
APPROVED
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Monthly Annuity $ 00
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel I.CM

DATE: 7 March 1978

RE: Termination

Please be advised that effective Friday, March 3, 1978,
Maurice Israel will be terminated from the Committee payroll.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please
contact me at your convenience.

Terminates 3/8/78
ICM:

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 5

ISRAEL, Sonny

Name of Employee

Address
Address

Phone Number

Position Title
Position Number
Level
Step

6-27-77

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1978

YEAR
DAJ ANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PROCEEDING YEAR

Annual
Leave
SICK
Leave
16

Years
Months
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
USED
THIS MONTH
BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH
Annual Sick
Annual Sick
Annual Sick
Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave

DAY OF MONTH
Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Annual Sick

Jan. S

Feb. S

Mar. XXX

Apr.

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

S = 0.5 day annual leave Terminates 3/8/78
= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave
CERTIFIED CORRECT
Date

Employee's Signature
orS = 1.0 day sick leave (If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
Approved: Chief's Signature
= 0.5 day administrative leave
Clerk of the House
INITIALS
or = 1.0 day administrative leave
Date Date
EMPLOYEE

Date
U = 0.5 day unauthorized absence
This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
or = 1.0 day unauthorized absence
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

0.5 day leave without pay
EXHIBIT
= 1.0 day leave without pay

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 6

MEMORANDUM

ISRAEL

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Signature of Employee Date

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 8

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

July 8, 1977

Finance Office
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

To whom it may concern:

Please note changes of address for these
Committee employees:

Maurice Israel (128 20 8996)
2601 South Glebe Road, Apt. 2600-1A
Arlington, VA 22206

Burton A. Chardak (194 18 8264)
120 South Reynolds
Apartment L-509
Alexandria, VA 22304

Thank you.

Sincerely,

Rebecca W. Martin
Chief Clerk

rwm

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 9
