180-10145-10302
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Victor Ganaque.
1 p.kg. loose documents.
1 Volume DED documente
1 Volume CI/OA documents
1 Volume DDO documents

DDO Volume

34 October 1960.
Personality-Sale Request
Victor Ganaque - 201-286 382
Reportedly au agent of DIER

Central Intelligence Agency
has no Objection to Release
Date:
AS SANITIZED
2003
Falmer
8/2/78

Undated document giving Paneque background
political activitiy. All 1960 information.
1. On arrival in U.S. stayed with Orlando Bosch,
suspected Cartis agent.
6. Associated with leader of MRR "Camilo Cienfuegos"
Carlos Rodrigriez Castro Suspected Castro plant in U.S.
Reportedly spent 2 hrs. with Raul Castro before
defecting.
Major Sonjenis, former Chief G-2, says
Ganaque of GOC agent.
Organization Autentica reporting D. State Dept
that Paneque is a Castro plant.
⑥ 00-A 3168667 reports Paneque one of two
DIER plants at Uni of Havana & stridentes
planning to assassinate him.
② Cuban bussenesaman says Panagiaris
(8) CIA reported DFBI that Subject Lin
10145-10302

Balmes
8/2/28
Janeque

April 29, 1959 Classified message. D. Directori from
Havana says Raul Castro has began a major
Purge of Cuban Armed Forces. Among those
to be eliminated are Vector Parque, aka "Diego"
18 Oet 1960
Conversation with major Vector M. Paneque (Commadante
Diego, 6 Detoties at 900).
When Paneque arrived in Meame, he got 
together with Alianza de Liberacion through
Dr. Luis Conte Aguero. He could not get immediate
help from this group, so resigned. Celso said
he had tried to get help from U.S. govt but ansuccessful
Panique is convinced that the only
thing needed to overthrow Castro in armor
supplies, Has a plane which he intends to
fly into Cuba with cargo of arma
Author of memo recommends that CIA
offer assistance & Panoque independent of
all other organizations as he seems to be
capable of becoming on important factor in
the future.

Nov: 2,1960 Cable to Director from mash
Paneque & 8 men leaving for Cuba neglit of how
on 40-foot yacht, Trudy Lou Craft purchased by
Orlando Bosch.

DIER - Departamento Investigativo
Del Ejercito Revolucionario
Palme
8/2/78
Banque

14 Dee: 1960.
Cable to Dereitor from Havaria. IN 16758
Paneque reportedly under arrest at Cabana
Prison & his wife at Women'sprison, on charges
of aiding Creambray fighters

Jan 13, 1961
Cable to Bell from Juatemala City. IN 1688
Alexander Rourke gives information that Frauk
Fiorini & Orlando Bosch represent Paneque in Cuba.
Frorini & Bosch recruiting & equiping force for
assault on Cuba 18 Jan Receiving financial aid
from ante Communist International Association
of nye.

14 March 1962
Dispatch D. Chief, Task Force W. from Cos/JMWAVE
Paneque organized a Hunger Strike by Cubau
Eules held a rally 13 March 1962. Purpose was
to show JOK that Cubans are willing 8 die
in exile if their right to defend Cuba in from
Communism is negaled "motto of. sticke is
"Hunger or War!!

PRQ part 1 - July 4, 1964.
Tiliases: Diego Rene Records (Clandestine Activity

SECRET
Palmer
8/1/78
Panque

Request for Sinformation of Review 5 novi 1964
POA granted 13 noυ 1964

8 Det 196.4
Report of Covert ascessment.
from Assessment & Evaluation Staff, Medical Staff
Paneque one of 6 members of the "rodop
trainer (radio ofcerators 3) given psychological
assessments in Aug 1964. Paneque is oldest,
(DOB 18 Sept 1920) Gend least intelligent, most
experienced of the group. Likely he would
try to dominate the group because of his
fast experience. His shortcomings Scene
out weigh his assets.

17 now 1964 Classified Message 1622587
Paneque assigned AMRUG-57

19. Dee. 1964
Memorandum of Oral Commitment
Paneque engaged under oral contracts on De 1964.
To receive $ 275. 28 per month following
Completion of atumfactory Resince Will
receive raise of $50 per month on completion
of training & $50 raise upon infiltration
)Possibly an infiltration of Oriente Provence) See it

Palme
8/2/78
Gam
SECRET

1 Det 1965
Dispatch from Cos/JIMWAVE
Penequa terminaled us of 31 Det 1965: Oзент
Service record. recommends him for re-Love
baris of his knowledge of intered Contacte in
Northern Oriente

15 Sept 1977. Managua #095686
Panique participated in Cuban file activities
in New York area in 1962 and later
registered in ISR & Dept of Army in diegust 1962
Dropped, without prejudice 18 Nov 1963.) Qu
1964 Parque iwas member of MDe
infiltration team. Recruited by meami
station as radio Operator / enfiltree and favorably
swirled on 5 August 1964
Port granted
13 now 1964. Paid #275 monthly beginning
1 Sep 1964. Trained by cuban agente in miami
but never used operationally Amecably terminatio
Det 1965 & "recommended for re-Love
Reported
in 1969 as Conducting clandestine trips inude
Cuba on behalf of Junta militer de Cuba

Third agency deletion nine.
8- FBI Sealed enveloper
Dept of Armiy

@
Palmer 8/2/78
SECRET

Volume CI/OA  - no notes necessary.
Victor Manuel Paneque Batista - C-286 382

Deletions -- 1. Sealed envelope.
FBI report 3 Now 1960 and Office of Security
polygraph Interview

Victor Panique
DCD Documents - No Notes

Looee Documents - Victor Paveque

17. Jeb. 197.2
Subject: Identification of pee, DSE, use members, etc
page 3 – Item 9: Information acquired through
interrogation of CC-4993, Jacinto BAEZ, Jaliano, a
Cuban refugee a former resident Rogla Havana
Province, who left Cuba 22 Nov 1971. Siebsource
Worked for Superphochates Enterprise from 1950-1968
Victn Manuel Paneque employed until 1968 as laboratory
Chief of Superphosphater, is a member of the P.CC,
militia, & Defence Committee (CDR). He is an
agronomist a former director of Schooling Agronomy;
Havana University. He is described as
Caucasian, 5'2" tall, weight about 165 lbe
born 1927-32, black hair, dark- Colored eyes
(note)
Victor Paneque Batista is 5'6" brown hair, blue eyes,
born 1920

takmer
2
Morales
Respons 8. 24 July 1978 Neuset
20 Jan. 1961 dispatch & Chief/Wtf from
Chief, JMWAVE
Sulj: Operations /JMATE/AMOT
Ref. Bell -0447

when info of referenced cable passed to
(amot 12 he stated he had received some
info from Felipe Rodriguez de la Tarre. According
1/2) he already alertect [AMIRON] Azsaid
that Subject has as of 13 Jan 1961, not attemptod
to enlist in AMIRON Both hase WAVE rud
[AMOT] are attempting to locate subject
