Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10317
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 1

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10317
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 12/29/76
PAGES : 12

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BROWN, CLAIRE, L.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 2

BROWN, C.L
Name of Employee

Address

Address

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1977
YEAR

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

Phone Number
Position Title
Position Number
Level

Step
ANNUAL LEAVE
DATE OF APPOINTMENT CATEGORY
12-29-76 1.0
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE 1.5
2.0

DAY OF MONTH
Years Months
Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
USED
BALANCE
AT CLOSE
THIS MONTH
INITIALS
EMPLOYEE
OF MONTH
Annual Sick Annual Sick Annual Sick Annual Sick
Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave
Jan. / / 1 1
Feb. / 2 2
Mar. / 3 3
Apr. / 4 4
May / 5 5
June / 6 6
July / 7 7
Aug. / 8 8
Sept. A AAAX XXXXX XX 8 8 8 0 8
Oct. Terminated 9/20/77
Nov.
Dec. A
0.5 day annual leave
S S
1.0 day annual leave
A A
0.5 day sick leave
U U
or or 1.0 day sick leave CERTIFIED CORRECT:

0.5 day administrative leave Employee's Signature Date Chief's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
1.0 day administrative leave Approved: Clerk of the House Date
0.5 day unauthorized absence This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
1.0 day unauthorized absence with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.
0.5 day leave without pay
1.0 day leave without pay EXHIBIT I

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 3

CLAIRE L. BROWN (703) 379-1379
5021 Seminary Road, #1104 Voting Residence: Georgia
Alexandria, Virginia 22311

CAREER OBJECTIVE

To develop and improve communication, understanding, programming, and/or policy
between the Federal Government and State and local agencies and associations.

EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

* Extensive experience evaluating and interpreting Federal education legislation
and regulations to determine the impact on State and local educational agencies.
* Congressional and Executive liaison to Senate, House, and education associations
responsible for analyzing and evaluating legislation and Federal regulations.
* Related experience in curriculum planning and educational research and in library
and education programming on the local, State, and Federal level.
* Reviewed with education association executives, the impact of pending legislation
on their interest group.
* Five years experience as a public school librarian and teacher.

EDUCATION

Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia, 1965.
B.S., Ohio State University, 1969. (Education)
M.S., Boston University, 1970. (Library Science) (Audio-Visual Education)

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

PROGRAM ASSISTANT, Office of Libraries and Learning Resources, U.S. Office of Ed.,
Washington, D.C. Researched and analyzed completion reports, compiled statistical
information, and wrote a comprehensive national summary of public library con-
struction from Federal funds. (1976)

LIBRARIAN, Office of Career Education, U.S. Office of Education, Wash., D.C.
Implemented a resource center of available career education materials from all
over the U.S. Wrote annotated bibliographies of specialized materials on women
and on the mentally and physically handicapped. (1976)

CONSULTANT, D.A. Lewis Associates, Inc., Clinton, Maryland. Researched, wrote,
and developed contract proposals in response to U.S. Gov't. R.F.P.'s, particularly
in library and Indian education programs. (1976)

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Committee for Full Funding of Education Programs,
Washington, D.C. Served as principal personal assistant to the Exec. Dir. and
worked with him in all phases of the operation. Worked as liaison with Executive
and Legislative branches of government for other groups interested in educational
funding (public schools, universities, libraries, handicapped, etc.) to coordinate
an effort for full funding of education programs on a Federal level. Initiated
legislative communications (phone & letter) to inform members and association
executives of pending bills. Attended hearings and meetings, reviewed and analyzed
Congressional Records and Federal Registers, and managed the financial records of
the Committee. Collected and organized bills, reports, and background materials on
pending education appropriations and budget legislation. (1975)

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 4

CLAIRE L. BROWN PAGE 2

LANDLORD-TENANT INVESTIGATOR, City of Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia.
Served as liaison between landlords and tenants in disputes, and as an authority
on Virginia housing regulations. Achieved recognition for outstanding negoti-
ations between a tenant and the Virginia Power Co. (VEPCO). Resolved problems
dealing with rent increases, utility bills, and the absence of landlord-tenant
contract-provided services. (1975)

STAFF ASSISTANT, Senator Herman Talmadge (Ga.), Washington, D.C. Helped to edit
the final volume of the Watergate Report, and assisted with bookkeeping concerns
on the Watergate Committee. Drafted legislative correspondence for the Senate
Agriculture Committee in response to constituent requests. (1974)

ASSISTANT LEGISLATIVE AIDE & CASEWORKER, Congressman Gus Yatron (Pa.), Wash., D.C.
Investigated and responded to constituent concerns in legislation, and to their
problems with social security and black lung disability benefits. (1974)

SCHOOL LIBRARIAN, DeKalb County School System, Decatur, Georgia. Achieved
recognition both locally and system-wide for implementing the "open-library"
concept in media centers. Responsible for all reference, acquisitions, cataloging,
and processing of materials. Member of curriculum planning committees for all
subjects, grades 1-7 and planned course curriculum content for library training.
Supervised, managed, and trained a large staff, analyzed school and community
needs, and held budget conferences with administrators. Designed and implemented
all policies within the library, prepared bibliographies, and conducted special
research projects for the principal and led seminars for librarians. (1970-1974)

GRADUATE ASSISTANT, to the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, School of
Education, Boston University, Boston, Mass. Collected and organized statistical
data used in evaluating various programs at the University, drafted and edited
documents, and served as coordinator for public relations activities in relation
to the University's centennial celebration. (1969-1970)

TEACHER, Columbus Public School System, Columbus, Ohio. Taught all subjects in
the inner-city to low-income 2nd/3rd graders. Worked with different Federal low-
income programs and officials, including ESEA, Title I, and Headstart. (1969)

ASSOCIATIONS AND HONORS

Georgia Association of Educators
American Library Association
Pi Lambda Theta, National Education Honor Society
Dean's List
Alumni Associations of Ohio State and Boston Universities
Member and active participant in the Smithsonian Institute and the Kennedy Center

HOBBIES AND INTERESTS

Travel, Current Events, Photography, Guitar, and Reading

References upon request

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 5

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. CHARLES THONE, NEOR.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

August 23, 1977

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director
House Select Committee on Assassinations
3342 House Office Building, Annex 2
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Professor Blakey:

Pursuant to our conversation of yesterday,
August 22, 1977, and my subsequent conversation with
Donovan L. Gay, Chief Researcher, of August 23, 1977,
I hereby tender my resignation with the House Select
Committee on Assassinations effective September 20,
1977.

I have enjoyed my work at the Committee and I
hope that my research as well as that of others will
aid in finding the truth and in bringing a satisfying
end to these investigations.

Sincerely

Claire L. Brown
Claire L. Brown

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Claire L. Brown 9/20/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action:
258 72 6151 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective.date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Researcher $15,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or Professional.
465 95th
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. of Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.).

Position Number : If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date September 15 19 77 (Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman (Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employee's under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-..
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code_

Monthly Annuity $. .00

 Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 7

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Claire L. Brown 5/1/77
Employee Social Security Number
258 72 6151
Employing Office or Committee Appointment
Assassinations Salary Adjustment Type of Action
Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$15,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)..

1. Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.465 of 95th_Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.).

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date May 10 1977 (Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration:
Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $
APPROVED: Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Fo
.00 Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 8

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.).

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives::

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Claire L. Brown 4/1/77
Employee Social Security Number.
258 72 6151 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment Type of Action
Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$30,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or: Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_____________.. If applicable, Level_
I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date April 29 1977 -1
Louis Stokes

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman (Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House, Classification. Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.-

Office of Finance use only: APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $. .00
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 9

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Claire L. Brown 1/3/77

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
259 72 6151 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Select Committee on Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$10,000.
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 11 of btn_Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step__

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date 19 77 (Signature of Authorizing Official)
Menry B. Conzalez
J
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairwan (Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $
.00 APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on on House Administration
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 10

DUCB 146
Rev. 8/71

S. S. No.
724-
3641
Send to kevin
DISTRICT UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION BOARD remem. S.S. H
Claimant's Name

PART ONE MAIL CLAIM

1. I claim unemployment insurance benefits for the calendar week which began Sunday, Dec 26
196 and ended Saturday, Jan-tt 1927

For the calendar week shown above:
a. I was available for and actively seeking work (✓) Yes () No
b. I was physically able to work (✓) Yes () No
c. I claimed or was receiving education, training or subsistence allowance
from the Veterans Administration () Yes () No
d. I claimed or was receiving unemployment insurance benefits under another
Federal or State Law () Yes () No
e. I claimed or was receiving a retirement pension or annuity () Yes () No
f. I was totally unemployed () Yes () No
(If your answer to item (f) is "Yes," do not complete item (g) below.)
g. I worked (✓ ) full time ( ) part time and earned, before deductions, $__ 83.33

☑ 2. This claim is filed by mail because: Doc. 29, 1976
a. I became employed. Date of employment
US. House of Representatives, House Select Committers on Assassinations
Employer's Name
Employer's Address 3342 H.O.B. #2, Washington, DC. 2051S

b. Other than employment. Reason

IMPORTANT: If you started to work during the calendar week claimed in item 1, you must have your employer com-
plete Part Two below.

I certify the above statements are true. I am aware that the law imposes penalties for false statements made in connec-
tion with this claim.
Claire L. Buvum 5021 Seminary Rd. #1104, Alexandria, Vo. 1/27/77
Claimant's Signature Address 22311 Date

PART TWO

LOW EARNINGS REPORT-To be completed by the employer and delivered
to the claimant at his request.
1. During the CALENDAR WEEK beginning SUNDAY Dec. 26, 1976 and ending
SATURDAY Jan. 1, 1977 (NOT your payroll week, if different),
this employee worked ☑ FULL TIME PART TIME
2. His gross earnings payable before deductions, which include tips, cash value of meals, lodgings, and all other remunera-
tion for that week were $ 83.33

3. If separated, enter date Explain reason for separation
4. Employer's Name US. House of Representatives, Select Committee on Assassina-
and tions
Address Washington, D.C. 20515

Martin Jan. 27, 1977 Rebecca W. Martin 225-2980
(Signature of authorized official) 2720 (Date) (Person who may be contacted) (Phone No.)

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 11

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Claire L. Sron Deskaber 29, 1976
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee Appointment
Select Committee on Assassinations Salary Adjustment
Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Esearch Gross Annual Salary
$15,310.30

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
?
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. of Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level
I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date_ December 23 1976 -1
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Chaimon (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Smect Cobaltene DM ASSRssinations
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the "Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only: APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Office Code--------
Monthly Annuity $__ .00
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
1

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 12

M E M O R A N D U

TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related ✓
I am related by the following relationship

Claire L. Brown Jan 10, 1977
Signature of Employee Date

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 13
