Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10489
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 9
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC
2107 Note]. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10489

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 06/01/77
PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS:
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MORTON, CECELIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

C
MORTON, C.T.
Name of Employee
Address
Address

Plione Number
Position Title
Position Number Level Step
DATE OF APPOINTMENT 6-1-77

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1977
YEAR

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
1.0
BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR

Annual Sick
Leave Leave
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE 1.5
2.0

Years Months

DAY OF MONTH
Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 3 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 ACCRUED
THIS MONTH

Annual. Sick
Leave Leave
AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH

Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave
USED
THIS MONTH
BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH

Annual Sick
Annual
Leave Leave Leave

EMPLOYEE
INITIALS
Leave
Sick
Leave
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
June // 0 0
July /// 2 2
Aug. XX 2 2 0 2
Sept.
Oct.
Nov. Terminated 8/5/77
Dec.

0.5 day annual leave
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
1.0 day annual leave
0.5 day sick leave
S
5 or 1.0 day sick leave Employee's Signature Date Chief's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
A
Aor 0.5 day administrative leave
A
A 1.0 day administrative leave Approved:
Clerk of the House Date
or 0.5 day unauthorized absence
U
This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.
U
1.0 day unauthorized absence
or 0.5 day leave without pay
1.0 day leave without pay EXHIBIT I
NW 88326
Docld:32239497 Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes.
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Cecelia T. Morton 9/5/77)
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
578 66 0125 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective date)
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)
Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or☐ Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 405
of Congress.
3 3. Joint Committee.
A
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number. If applicable, Level Step
I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b); prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date August 1.1977
)
Louis Stokes (Signature of Authorizing Official)
Chairman (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
mployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.
Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $______ .00
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 4

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
د

PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter.AU.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes.
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last):
Cecelia T. Morton Effective Date
8/1/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
578-66-0125 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective date)
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)
Secretary Position Title Gross Annual Salary
12,000
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465
of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number____________ If applicable, Level Step
I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date August 2 1977 (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN (Title-If Member, District and State)
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the, Joint Committees must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.
Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $________.00
NW 88326
Docld:32239497 Page 5
APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration.
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use TypewriterU.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Cecelia T. Morton 6/1/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
578 66 0125 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective date)
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)
Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary $11,000
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number____________ If applicable, Level Step________
I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 31.10 (b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date June 1 1977
Louis Stokes (Signature of Authorizing Official)
Chairman (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $00

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 6
APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Fo 6/2
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
:

CECELIA MORTON

REFERRED BY RED LON BURTON-
CURRENTLY MAKING 10,400 -
WOULD COME AT SLIGHE
INCREASE - 10,500 = 11,000

I RECOMMEND HIRING HER
AS TYPIST.

NW 88326
Docld:32239497 Page 7

20946 4088
MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth and Becky Martin

FROM: Steve Fallis

DATE: May 13, 1977

RE: Secretaries

1. Eileen Copeland has been hired as a secretary
and will begin work on Monday, May 16, 1977. Her salary
will be $11,000 per year and she will be temporarily as-
signed to the Legal Unit.

2. Nancy Schultz has been hired as a secretary, to
begin work on Monday, May 23, 1977, at a salary of $12,000
per year. She is to be assigned to the Administrative
Unit.

3. Cecilia Morton has been hired as a secretary and
will begin work on June 1, 1977. Her salary will be
$11,000 per year. She will be assigned to the Kennedy Unit.

The resumes for Ms. Copeland, Ms. Morton and Ms.
Schultz accompany the copy of this memorandum to Becky
Martin.

jg

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cous-in

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 9
Cecelia Marton
Signature of Employee
6-2-77
Date

!
LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624
Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 10
MEMORANDUM

TO: Congressman Louis Stokes

FROM: Cecelia T. Morton

SUBJECT: Resignation

DATE: July 27, 1977

Please accept this as my resignation as of today's date
to terminate August 5, 1977.

I am sorry for the short visit but I have been offered
security and a more substantial job and better opportunities
and wish to express my regret, for I have accepted this
position.

I shall not forget the experience of working for the
Committee and wish everyone the best of luck in trying to
solve these cases.

Sincerely,
Cecelia Monton

Cecelia T. Morton
1240 46th Street S.E.
Washington, D.C. 20019
(202) 575-2571
RESUME
Cecelia Morton
Date of Birth: 8-13-49

No. of Dependents: 1
GFF

Marital Status: Married

Employment Record

April 1972 Present 659-1680
Rural Housing Alliance, 1346 Connecticut Ave.
N. W. Washington, D. C. 20036 (202)
Immediate Supervisor: David Raphael
Title: Assistant Director

Position: Secretary
Reason for Leaving: Need new Challenges

Job Description: Responsible for assisting Director in carrying
out duties pertaining to fund-raising activi-
ties and special projects. Interviewing
applicants for various secretarial positions.
Responsible for review of items published
in Federal Register. Prepare summaries of
all rules and notices of regulations pertain-
ing to rural issues. Responsible for main-
tenance of library, publications, and materials,
periodic review of system of coding and
filing. (Volume approximately 4,000 items)

Also served as Membership and Subscription
Secretary which duties included: processing
applications for members, day-to-day contact
with mailing houses. Maintaining supply of
materials for publications. Assisting with
the organization of new publications, layout
work.

At one time served as Information Director/
Research Secretary, some duties included:
preparation and layout work for the monthly
newsletter (RHA Reporter) for printers,
making travel arrangements, coordinating all
local and national newsclippings dealing with
housing issues, responding to members inquiries.
Typing press releases, speeches, statements,
and other correspondence.

(more)

NW 88326
Docld:32239497 Page 11

Cecelia Morton
-2-
Employment Record (Cont'd)

September 1969 April 1972 Riggs National Bank, 1510 H Street N.W.,
Washington, D. C. 20005 (202) 624-2630
Immediate Supervisor: Linda Porter

Job Description: Position: Clerk-Typist
Reason for Leaving: Need for sufficient
salary; better oppor-
tunities for advance-
ment

Transferring stocks and bonds, light
bookkeeping, correcting computer print-
out sheets and balancing balancing companies records,
answering phones, various mailing jobs.

Part-time high school
September 1969 Chemical Bank, 277 Park Avenue, New York,
New York
Immediate Supervisor: Ken Barrington
Title: Trust Officer

Position: Clerk-Typist
Reason for Leaving: Left city to move
to Wash., D.C.
Job Description: Crediting checking accounts, issuing
series E savings bonds, ordering check-
books, typing loan contracts, receptionist
duties, general office work.

Education
Charles Evans Hughes High School, West 18th Street, New York,
New York, graduated June 1967.

Armstrong Adult Education Night School, 1st & P Streets N.W. Washington
D. C. Received certificate 1971 in keypunching..

References
Mr. David Raphael, Asst. Director, Rural Housing Alliance, 1346 Connecti-
cut Avenue N.W, Washington, D. C. 20036 (202) 659-1680

Ms. Mary Lansing, Admin. Ass't to Rep. John Burton, 1714 Longworth Bldg.,
Washington, D. C. (202) 225-5161

Mrs. Claire Earle, 9562 Landbreeze Row, Columbia, Md. (301) 596-6753

NW 88326
Docld:32239497 Page 12

MEMO MAY 91977
from Morton

To Mr Hullon D. 5-6-77
Date
Hello,
I really appreciate
you taking time with
me Today, Enclosed is
the verification. я
hope to hear from youω
soon. 1/ AM
WE 5/11
Reply Initial and return See me

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 13

JACK BROOKS, TEX., CHAIRMAN
ROBERT N. GIAIMO, CONN.
JAMES G. O'HARA, MICH.
JAMES C. CLEVELAND, N.H.
JOHN M. ASHBROOK, OHIO

Congress of the United States
JOINT COMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF PLACEMENT AND OFFICE MANAGEMENT
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

LEE METCALF, MONT.,
VICE CHAIRMAN
MIKE GRAVEL, ALASKA
LAWTON CHILES, FLA.
JESSE A. HELMS, N.C.
PETE V. DOMENICI, N. ΜΕΧ.
MAY 91977

Date 5/6/77

Listed below is the result of a test
administered by the Placement Office

to Cecelia Morton
on Friday, May 6, 1977 1977.

Typing:

76 wpm on a 5-minute test

81 wpm with 5 errors)

Anne Wilander
Placement Officer

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 14
Startny
June 1/1779
