180-10145-10285
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HUMAN CAPITAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT 5 June 1978 HSCA
TO: Mr. Robert Morrison
House Select Committee on Box 54
Assassinations
3381 House Annex #2 FROM: Office of Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency 
Room 7 D 35
Washington, D.C. 20505 Folder
THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:
INFORMATION ACTION XXXXX RETENTION LOAN
CONTROL NUMBER DOC. DATE SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred) CLASS.

5/13/78 Sanitized Notes - Leslie Wiselman S
of William Alexander Morgan
Sanitized Notes - Beth Lichtenfels S
of DeMohrenschildt
5/12/78 Sanitized Notes - Bob Genxman S
of Daniel A. Parsons
Sanitized Notes - Leslie Wizelman S
of Herman Greenspun and Gordon McLendon
5/24/78 Sanitized Notes of Jim Wolf S
of Deryabin file
Sanitized Notes & Patricia Orr S
of David W. Ferrie

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

1956/
RECEIPT
SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above documents)
RETURN TO OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
DATE OF RECEIPT CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ROOM 7 D 35
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505
FORM 3772B 1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY
10-76 2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK
3 - CANARY, OLC HOLD BACK
10145-10285

SECRET
DDO
Leslie Wizelman
8/13/78

William Alexander morgan
The Morgan file contains the following documents and information:
Information covering 1959-1973:
1- Cable dated march 24, 1959 stating that morgan is staying
at the Hotel Capri in Havana and is very close to
Eloy Gutierrez menoyo. morgan hired Tony Beacon,
Phila. Daily newsman, to handle publicity. POA request
initiated, for morgan, ay march.
2- Biographic Data Sheet: Alias "El Americano"?
POB 4-19-28 POB: Cleveland.
3. Request for Cancellation of Approval - 8 may 5, 1959
reason: Derogatory info. Cancelled may 6,1959
Information covering 1 Jan 1960 - 14 Aug 1974:
(1) máy 19, 1960 cable from the Director reporting that U.S. Army
was in contact with on march 18 re a plan. They're considering
recruiting morgan. U.S. Army inquired if CIA had any operational
interest in Morgan and the group around him, mentioning
Bob mccormack, Bob Brown, Tony Nichols, morgan's bodyguards:
michael S. Colin, Jack Ossorio, Frank Emmick, Jerry Hemming,
and June Cobb (Fidel's secretary). Has replied no operational interest.
Cobb was from N.Y. and working for Castro as a translator
since Sept. 1959.
(2) 17 march 1960- source stated that on 16 Feb 1960 he had
Observed morgan in Toledo, Onio in company of Roberto
Augustus Brown, Jr.; Toledo Police Dept

SECRET

morgan -2-
SECRET

(3) march a2, 1960 cable reporting that they feel strongly that it
would be a serious mistake för any uis. gout agency to.......
recruit morgan for operational purpose. morgan Who
reportedly under local cloud is perectly capable
gout
betraying u.s. or his own mother if it would advance
_his personal interests..

(4) memo, 29 march 1960 subject: meeting with U.S. army officer
to discuss Plan thy are considering to recruit William morgan.
Army officer was told that the CIA nad no operational interest in
William morgan and they had a bad impression of morgan.
The army officer felt that "successful recruitment of morgan
would be extremely worthwile."

(5) Oct 5, 1960 memo reporting that on 4.Oct 1960
FI staff member ww informed That major Carpenter
Asst chief Staft Intelligence (us. Army)
from the office of ACSI was requesting a secret
writing system from SAB to be passed to morgan,
TSD was informed that WH14 had made known its
Objections to the ACSI on any we of Morgan approx.
6 months ago and that the Branch. position had not
changed. "It was still felt that to have any
dealings with morgan was a mistake , and that ACSI
was doing it over the strenuow objections of WH

SECRET

morgan -3-
SECRET

(6) cable Oct 5,1960 reporting that a secret writing system
had been provided for issuance to Morgan. "u.s. Army
using morgan inspite strenuow HQS recommendaticas
to contrary...

Background Info
Oct 21,1960 - Morgan's arrest announced..

1 Copy of the last written statement made by William Alexander morgan.
before his execution.

(1) extract from a memo of conversation writtenby by the FI
Departmental - Coordination Group re Discussion with.
ffice of dated a may 1973. OACSI said
Asst Chief Staff Intelligence (us. Army)
the OACSI files were incomplete as to the nature of
Army contact / or we of morgan. An ISR check
confirmed that Morgan was not registered at any
time , but that he was connected in an undefined
manner to a registered source of Army."

- Info on Frank Emmick, Gus kangos;
SECRET

SECRET

Bich Bientenper

Si Makrenskild

Jii 3
Max Mappeared Cipril 14, 1954, A story
to Mr Gel pres of Kardes of 10
J. Pauptras St. Janwar worked for him from
Sept 6, 1953-Capril 14, 1954. Left fout motive
Friend Graydon Hartstice of Daler Dermac
Herald -fashion Reporter
Frend - Elizabeths Cleveland, writer for

marriage applicablys dob
May 5, 1914
Nordes 1914
Albert Stilemen. Personave Sir for Sanger

Harris. Co sarp files reveal.
mader mami - Fomenko
JCB May 5, 1919
1 saleslady on #52.00 week had been
making 300-400 a month as a ile cigner

Man Cube Selby- pupercen - Millining lept
Hunger. Harrier sand Jodem lleg sent her a historen
sand telling her her they they
и мне in a morintin
in vart and recusandmail. Amet

:SECRET

SECRET
mend. - Rune Kaigerodsky. Sam Ballen, Igor Dashurir
May E. Clark, Henry Ragatry zun
Col. Frumenes Order (laughter of .com's
Racer McNaughtork 's)
In Feb 1963 - demake Dunel if be
Could Help a young man get his dis
pharf changech - said he war form Font
Wired, had defected to ussia and had re...
turned. Attempted but sowed Nat each
Yireng mar. Mattr dropped....
??) claims to have met a
mita liga Rusuar officiel
in Man City - Thikoyan?)

ал
dem to 700,000 from Raigaradsky
to develop a corp. which would develop
commercial resources in Haiti

Pleasure
claiss. &M made a tup to Miks
Rogaty
in early 1950's

Belonged to Petroleum Aled in Salles
Lay Dyin suma de M&J to have been in Yugs-
at sine teme due to picheres he had seen

Jam had savings accent of 1280.18-12that
Bank of Hollan

SECRET

SECRET

FBI đc 3/19/64, 3pages Jr G de M
Wand Kakles-grund, Jova

Sems cubred Haiti of torrent sard not passport
mir to through I. Baur
Hi moves into h yжен.

Intermed of Sary Taylor
dem Elaime to have worked for State Dep
in mid 1950
Jodie m.. 5'3"-135

Mr. JM Burre realled Avier. of IM
in which he stated the had been forced
four the Conmmunist party while bu Сликд
Кина - Alternative = deack

Mr Tom Sanda - Manager of Bith Loverty Commies.
• Ourer of Asper Sumber and supplit is said
as Rangely Supply Co. at C
Organization know
at Rapen laps

Lepend of James W. 3/14/64.
On 1/03 hi amata Lithiazine
that he had been informed by FBI that
He was harmless intervent B
- Mads of implie hein 41 Cland had

-cu-
SECRET

SECRET
:

I'm was freeper in Walden Oil Cr. uf Ed. G Wally
had office in public Natok Rely kn
1639-40 from lept 3 954- May 28, 859

"Children Esserins Search Found alla by Sharple

Source
met LHO A2. He had arrewed at Am
home en middle of dinner but did ist eat.
Source
After + имent to a house
nearly Bildg in all sharud a film caccesing
entise trip thru Mikiki did har talk L
Lote on see him again.

Cal. Oslas stars Sem casually mentioned he
come other vere triping te a Arrange
a divorce for. Maria grom cite.

Resume states he had speriat connections in greit
curein in Luba ett.
نے

Jillit
34 agency 78 4B, Lepont 210444 그
ві 310/44- Titlel-Gim
2/28/64 Jedem 15-R

Freund's - Serge Chalensky restaurantend in Καω
fank by

J...
SECRET

SECRET
Wilo-frends of
lucci Sulent Fund

314
ўку їхд 28/6/05- Philly
22/4/15 - Phtert 731

Fol 4 - Dagram 18/3/64 LA
# 108-17448 (feed) 100-32965
bxJd2m 26/3/04 Philly
100-329
#105-146:105-102.29 feed) Buscan
J+Jdem
26/3/44 #105-76 felt
100-32945. Bureau

Phaenep 26/3/64 #PX100-299.5 Bu
100-32965
New York 25/3/64 NY 100-10310

New Orleans 25/3/164.
105-218o
105-2184
100-32965-Вил

24/3/64-DC, -nd #

Boston 24/3/64 105-11242
100-32965 Bic
State Doc. Memo of Concert, Subi Uuet to
Dept by BM. 24/4/64
Port de
State telegram #881 - 18/4/164 from Phere
#871
//
FBI doe 17/4/64 on GM 105-632 (Celd
100-329105 Buzza
FBI die 21/4/604 GM NOT
SECRET

ساد

SECRET
Burea

PRSI NY 15/4/164 Jdim. 100-10310 freli 100

B1 Keport - Philly 14/4/104 Brdem 105-146 105-102)
AB1 Report Doctus 3/4/64 on Jodem 105-10766-fre
100-32965-Bren
9731 Report by 2/4/64 1249 100=10310 foed-
100-32945 Виле
офы Кероля Chicago 1/4/6t glim 1005-123 free
13 " " DC 1/4/64 онд -лють
ofter mastur
lem = member of Petrovie Dub-play
tennis

1963- Members of staff of If business furn
had attended a discussion jup m 1903 кино
was there,

Nov 4 1931 sentenced by tribune Correchom
at Antwerp to 8 daus on preson on Ckgs of st
a police officer & days or fure of 182 frares"
for drunker drving & use of fatce name... By
for probation.

7B1 Reyat 27/2/24- sem contact of...

Aldo Alekseevich Paraven - Sovet Deplo in
DC. Alekseevich member of Sorest State.
Surity Force rence onid 1940's feraed on luke

Marilyn Wilcox - Pan Am employer ed
from Yan & Sugeran Jamel that &M was a
good freind of Cobert McElhermon top san
um

SECRET

:

SECRET
of arrangmes on deriv
this modi prior arr
at abban Powers
At 08307 may an cal was mals to Mes Matlack
to confirm that Charles world be on DC on that
day a meeting bad been arranged of an
aspicy rep for 12 noon. Ma Mattach re-
Kortes that Br J has called that that princoin
weney to confirm a 12:00 lunch appt of
her. Mes Matkach was consumed CA
& army should Hot be working
purposes the had recent authorization from
ACBP to meet Charles at lunch & belt it
vones be impolike to afdraw.sence Ake
AKMY
Comicdered the the pt of contactif Charle..
Wit diesem wartel meeting
Then changed to afternoon - Cate
Mattach believed that der to conflictin
instructions the had been placed in Middle"

Mattack - Somesthi Exploitation See. ACSI
Acnes Berend planned to
Aary 4/4/77
Pallas se Ri) arkck by J.E.
Sather Soner or later E& well get och our office in
Sallas, Jind was there at the time
✓ try to make a connection. Deres just
wanted to alent us.

34 Attachment from RtR dated 4/4/17 from
Dallas Fo

SECRET

SECRET
::

