180-10143-10070 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

Briefing 2/14/78

Bill Donnelly, chief of Information Services Staff
Mike Duffy?
Hen. Coyle
Virginia Tores

Opening of 201
Operational issues.
Trace would be conducted.

Trace produced or waiting materials

it produced index cards.

Who opens 201?

Investigative Officer - its his judgement who determines whether of no intection of entering intrust, 201 may not be opened.
If the and. & refp. comes from a Source Such as FBI, CIA May not open a 201.

If the type of info. comes in, it would go into index
There are, certain etteria
1) Retrunt
2) High-Level Communist officials

Hen are some operations where all run out of Headquarters, in which case a case officer in involved

PR0.Ph.I -
PRTI - Might cause p. involvement
There should be a doc. indicating reasons why a part. person is not recruited.
There should be a reference in 1st file to document in 2nd file if there is one.

0001742
SECRET
PAGE 1 of 20
COPY NO. 10143-10070

SECRET

Info in PROI is info. elected fromatters.

“It is info from person if he is recruited → they want it separated, to be viewed only on “need-to-know” basis.”
Standard Form for opening 201 file should not contain reason; would contain ref. to a document while would be the reason.
201 #'s all designed by a particular Agency or other.
Numerical order is applied. See they are opened in sequential order.

201 would contain photo if Agency sends one. - If doc. has been sent in from field.
If photo is sent in from field or another agency after 201 has been opened, it would be added to 281.

Doc. “Review of 201 File on U.S. Person” - Person is categorized by a review of the file using specific criteria.
PROI does not apply a PROII.
Normally PROI & PROTI would exist in the same file. If PROTI contains primarily op. info, then it would be maintained in separate file, to which would be a reference sheet made.
If operational info in cryptonyms the entire 201 would have limited access.

True name & cryptonyms are not maintained on the same sheet.
On 201 reg. form, there is room for a cryptonym, but it is not filed in a true name file.

There is a table of contents list of what is available in 201 file. This is compiled from abstract record list - in computer system

Green list check: Info. gathered an is result of SIGINT or COMINT.
R. list check: also a separate check, but Cliffy doesn't know what it checks.

0001743
SECRET
PAGE 2 of 20
COPY NO.

SECRET

CIA - State Dept. integration
High of cover - where S.D. employees are aware that CIA emp. is in fact employed to CIA
More integrated cover where a person would do a full-time S.A. job & also a CIA job which is unbeknownst to rest of S.D. employees. - Could be a "deep official cover" as well as a "sleep cover"

Am. citizens or most foreign’s if used in some manner would, as a general rule, have a separate file.
If that person was en employee of another govt. agency or from military, that org. would have to be consulted.
Probably would we het that org's.

PLS - Policy & Co-ord. Staff.
Is would be involved in co-ord. of a project in which both the CIA & another org. was involved

To the extent of CIA involvement, files would de maintained. That is not to say that biter would not have more comprehensive files.

Subject file
Shapies-
DCR- office of Central Reference Room - office of ships, things of intelligence nature are maint

Photos of persons are maintained
Photos of terrain, de would not be of interest
Offices Covered / Covered Ads

P & L: Prescribed & Limited - refers to communications which are compartmentaland
Opening of P&L channel of comm. is determined by oreof 3 persons - Chief of P & L, ADDO, DDO

0001744
SECRET
PAGE 3 of 20
COPY NO.

SECRET

This has always been tree - la earlier times, it may have been restricted by even fuer persons.

Each communication may, in twice, be downgraded; may never be destroyed.

Is it possible, in context of a CI threat, in cave of an hypothetical that saff. would not be compiled in a 201 file? -
If so what?
It is conceivable that mary docs. would wrist in to system & no be compiled into a 201 if there docent appear to be a need.
If so what?

Psends: false name Hold
wypto: used to id. an area
If Crypto you cannot assign a cryptonym w/out having a 201 #

of opses of communication
Followed by group of letters
Wypto. by digress,

As soldier lists has given away mil. secrets & then defects, a 201 file would not necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter.
CI staff may chewe wed interests in defector
In vally 60's, there was an interest in defectors.

Dan's hypo Saved on ZRRIFLE:
574 A form: request to put doc. into system

? 1897 :
In op. such as ZRRIFLE there may de overley Ph - might need go into system depending upon determinatio of Special Handling case.

“Sleeper agent” hypo: to handle sleepercy in Comm. China There doesn’t allessally have to know it since it is being run from Natre. - Jon DAP to II Staff reasonable scenario

Would a 201 de opened on sleeper?
Competing of secrecy ws. Being able to keep track of sleeper
-10201-C.0. in 2.1-
Range of sleeper to Am. soldier defecting to E. Germany - report comes in Af from reliable source stating that sleeper is providing inf.

SECRET
0001745
PAGE 4 of 20
COPY NO.

SECRET

Plans would take place in small room in CI staff.
Firm must be signed by 2.00 - would be put iets op. file on the suly
Op. File would be held at CI staff or at action desk.
Problems: Communication:
Equipment

Op. files can generally bedestroyed according to guidelines.

Is it possible for someone to have hott a 201 file & the Personnel File? yes

0001746
SECRET
PAGE 5 of 20

SECRET
Records Administration - helpi diffe directorates set
- Bruce Johnson
+ George Frattas
nessur 455
R1D = defunct designation for part 1 - Info.
Services Staff at handles DDO recordo

DDO

Is
RA
DDO has a filing sys unto itself

Any IS can call upon RA to give assistance. But DD can also design it.
Own filing sys. y. leg. as RA lays L guidelines were followed. But RA wally is informed of how to they other filing sys works.
Day is decentraliza of file is decentralizes

ISS Central sys is abo heart for of indiv idivision Cie. and systems.. for itkuns of record value
Special material might not go into Central file.. ie Special Correspondence

SECRET
0001747
PAGE 6 of 20
COPY NO.

SECRET

Prescribed & Limited info -highly sensitive info- limited distri to certain indivs designation as poC is mach by ADO + senior staff officer
Pol designation - dees cover agent in hostile territory Mi
designation - the would not be uncommon this kind

10 or 15 YN ago, wl suple venitive operations, this was relatively common
* Posts: for something to be so sensitive that no 201 file is assigned.
CI staff has fove ovare accum litor many you is is now catching place names in central index

assign to the Ptl file is what of to locate Last, desh.
Could open 201 file who giving indication of prior assue with CIA. This, according to Johnson,

SECRET
0001748
PAGE 7 of 20

wory
Fraitor
SECRET
Cryptonym would be in 201 file.

201-: need for a continuing interest in order to open.a. file.
Source.......
asiel....
adversary
KB

Intelligence threat
20 file would be opened wli matter of cheyp. or a wk...alsuming source is accurate..

ie on American from in Germany who is giving infe to pussidus

To locate where documents were filed prior to bling placed in file, refer to trace trad Jyr under document #
If a sleeper who
is actually has 201 file & open # assigned to him, it is possi that his case office would prevent opening of a 201 file #
Intrageny source register exits for side gar of agency hiring same ingul

SECRET
0001749
PAGE 8 of 20
COPY NO.

SECRET

Graphics index will wit contain routine pictures of tourinh
201 files will not neily countrin pictures

There is Central index
You not certain, but
ahisi To Would wot be retined for record proue

prousi for 201 file not to contain crypt
deepkover-there people don't have quis in their tyve names

2015 are not opened in psoedonym
Bub Bartow

There are no working file