180-10143-10233 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Russell August Langelle
SECRET
Genzman #
5-4-78

Robert Genzman and Harold
Lep interviewed Russell August
Langelle at C/A Headquarters
on May 4, 1978. The interview
yielded the following information:
Langelle joined the CIA in
September 1950, and worked
mainly in SR9 of the Soviet
Russia Division. In November
1955 he resigned from the Agency
Con the pretext that he was
disgruntled with his assign-
ments. His CIA files would
have reflected this termination
of employment. The only document
to the contrary would have been
a memorandum from the Director
of Central Intelligence Allan
Dulles, stating that Langelle
would retain all rights and benefits
when he returned to the C/A
(at present this document would
probably be in his personnel.
file.

11112574
Approximately fifteen people
knew that Langelle was still.
with the C/A after his resigna-
tion in 1955. These included
John Maury (SE), Joe Bulik)
(SR9), Quentin Johnson (Chief
of Operations), George Risevaljer
Frank Levy, Ted Polling

SECRET

VPV

10143-10233

32
SECRET
Genzman
5-4-78
03
(Jack Kindschi, June Sworbuck)
(Ed Galloway), Leonard Mc Coy
(Reports and Requirements), Pierre
de Silva (cos), and someone at
the State Department's Office of
Security
at the time of his resignation,
Langelle applied for employment
with the State Department. In
the interim he worked at the
Hecht Company. In March 1956
he started to work at the
State Department as a Security
Officer. In September 1956 he
was sent to Vienna, where he
served a reputation for being
a strict Security Officer at the
Embassy. He was deliberately tough
on CIA personnel who breached
security, in order to build his
cover as a non- CIA foreign
service officer. His salary was
paid by the State Department
The CIA Chief of Station in Vienna
and the Ambassador knew he
was
with the CIA.
11112575
Langelle served as the Security
Officer at the Moscow Embassy
from December 1957 to September
1959. In addition, he was the
senior CIA officer there. The
CIA contingent in Moscow
consisted of five or six officers

4/1

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
[working inside the Embassy and
approximately four outside. Inside,
with deep cover, were George
P. Winters (Econ Officer), FNU
(Mahoney), FNL Wenables and Steveos
Washenko Econ? or Agric Officer)).
Outside were Jean Leberman (teacher at
the American school)) and
three or four students, who handled
orientation projects rather than
operations projects
Langelle handled CIA.
communications in Moscow. The
CIA used State Department
channels of communication, but
could code messages by means of
one-pad encrypting so that
the message was secret until
it was forwarded to CIA head
quarters, where it was decoded.
In 1959 the Soviets declared
Langelle persona non grata as
a result of his involvement with
P.S. Popov. Langelle was the
case officer of Popow, who worked
for the GR Soviet military
intelligence. While making a
contact with Popov, Langelle
was detained by the KGB
and was questioned for two
and a half hours. The KGB
attempted to recruit him, and
then released him. The State
SECRET

11112576
R
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
Department filed a formal protest,
but Langelle was told to leave
the Soviet Union within three
days. He left the Soviet Union
in early October 1959.
Langelle first became aware
of Lee Harvey Oswald when he
heard in a conversation that
a Marine had contacted the
American consular office in
Moscow to renounce his citizenship
He later heard that this individual
had changed his mind and was
returning to the United States.
He does not recall the details
of these conversations, but he
believes they took place in the
United States.
11112577
Langelle characterized Oswald's
defection as a consular case to
be handled by consular officers,
rather than an intelligence case
involving intelligence officers,
who were shorthanded
in Moscow
at that time. He stated that
the few intelligence officers in
Moscow at that time were
involved in specific operations,
and did not perform general
intelligence functions. He also
stated that intelligence officers
at the Embassy did not use
the consular officers for intelligence
SECRET purposes, and that there were

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
no CIA people in the consular
section
Langelle stated that the
military intelligence people at the
Embassy probably would have been
contacted about Oswald's defection.
The military intelligence personnel
included Leo Dulacki (Marines),
Paul Adams (Navy), John
Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman
(Army). He did not know
whether Alexis Davison (Navy)
was an intelligence officer or
in the Penkovsky case

Langelle stated that when
Oswald left the Soviet Union,
he was the responsibility of the.
State Department, the Immigration
and Naturalization service, and,
the FBL.

11112578
When Langelle left
Moscow in 1959, Winters was
the senior CIA officer there.
(Mahoney) and Leberman were still
there, and Washenkos may still
have been there. Langelle's
replacement as Embassy Security
Officer was John Abidian
was not with the CIA. Abidian
was later replaced by Hugh
Montgomery, who was Winters
successor as senior CIA officer

SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
Montgomery was later replaced by
Garbler, who became the
first officially designated Chief
of station in Moscow. Other
CIA officers in Moscow circa 
1962 included (Rodney Carlson),
Bill Horvaly, and possibly John
D. Hemenway.

At Headquarters the chief
of the Soviet Russia Division
was John Mawry, followed by
Howard Osborne and then
David E. Murphy.

With regard to American
journalists in Moscow, Langelle
had no contacts with R. G.
Korengold or Alive Mosby,
did not know a. I. Goldberg,
and was contacted by Priscilla
Johnson for an interview after
he was declared persona non
grata.
SECRET 11112579

When Langelle returned to the
United States, he continued working
for the State Department. He resumed
[his] CIA duties on a part-time basis
in 1961. De dealt with communications
between Washington and Moscow
In September 1961 he resumed [his] CIA duties
on a full-time basis at headquarters. He
worked mainly in the Soviet Russia
Division, External Operations, Africa and
Europe. At present he is still with the
CIA and still paid by the State
Department but he plans to retire soon.

SECRET

Sangelle
was born
on
October 71922.
his social security number is (495-18-8808)
he is married, with three children.
Sangelle
joined the CIA in September, 1950
and worked mainly in the Soviet
Rissias Division - In November 1955 he
resigned from the Agency on the pretext
that he
was disgruntled with his
assignments. His CIA files would
have reflected termination of employment.
The only document to the contrary would
have been a memorandum from the
Director of Central Intelligence allan
Dulles, stating that Langelle would
retain all rights and benefits when to
returned to the CIA
( Approximately
fifteen people knew that he was
still with the CIA after this resignation
in 1955. These included John Maury
(SE), Joe Bulik) (SR9), Quentin
Johnson (Chief of Operations), George.
Risevalper (sp), Frank Levy, Ted
Polling, fack Windschi, June 03
Sworbuck (Ed. Galloway), Leonard
Me Coy (Reports and Requirements),
Pierre de silara (cos), and
someone at the State Department
office of Security SECRET 11112520
at the time of his
Langat
galle
resignation siangle applied for
employment with the State Department

SECRET
Sangelle handled CIA communications
in Moscow. The CIA used State
Department channels of communication,
But code could code messages by means
of one pad encrypting
so that the
message was secret until it was
forwarded to CIA Headquarters for
decoding.

SECRET
11112581

deliberately tough
on
CIA personnel for
Security breaches in order to build.
his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officer
His salary was paid by the state Department
In the interim he worked at the Wecht
Company. In March 1956 He
started to work at the State Department.
as a Security Officer He was se
Vienna in September 1956. In September
1956 de was sent to Vienna, where he
State Depacing Department
earned
developed a reputation for being was
strict Security Officer de CIA
Chief of Station] In the (in Vienna) and
the ambassador knew 10 he wat with
of
the CIA Le served as the Scarity
Par Langeble served as the security
ey from
officer at the Moscow Embassy from
December 1957 to September 1959

[de addition, he was the senior CIA
officer there, with five or six
CIA officers working inside the sembassy
approximately four outside..
(Econ. Officer),
Orside, with deep cortes, were George P. Winters
03 (Mahoney)
(Venables) 3 and 0332
Jaan
Vashenko (Econ, or Agric. Offion))
Outside were fear Liberman de teacher 24
at the American school) and three or
four students, who handled orientation
projects rather thap. operations projects

SECRET
11112582

dn 1959 the Soviets declared
L'Angeli persona non grata as a result
of his involvement with P.S. Popov.
Zange li was the case officer fos Popor,
who worked for the at GRU,
Soviet military intelligence. L'angoli
Sangalle had been contacting up While

SECRET
making a contact with Popov
Langelle was detained by the KGB
and was questioned for two and a
half hours. The 2GB attempted.
to recruit him, then released.
Rim The State Department.
filed a formal protest, but fangelle..
was forced to bave the Soviet Unior
within three days..........

Sangalle first became aware
of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard
in conversation that a former Marinc
had contacted the American consular
office in Moscow to renounce his.
citizenship He later heard that
this individual Rad changed his
mind and was
returning to the
United States. He does not recall
the details of these conversationes
but be believes they took place
in the United States, 11112583

Langelle characterized Oswald's
defection as a consul consular case to be
handled by consular officers rather
than an intelligence case wh
involving intelligence officers, who
were shorthanded in Moscow at that
time He otated that the few
intelligence officers in Moscow at that
time were involved in specific.
SEC ET operations, ond did not handle perform
general intelligence functions N
staled that Oswald, when he returned
* He also stated that the intelligence officers an
Embasay did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes,

and that there were no CIA g people in
the consular section.

SECRET
left the Soviet Union, was the
responsibility of the State Department,
the Immigration and Naturalization
dervice, and the FB).

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959
Winters was the senior CIA officer there.
Mahoney and Lebernar were still there,
and Washenko may still have been there
Sangelle replacement as Embassy Security
John Abidian who was
Officer
A
was
not with the CA. Abidian was
latered replaced by Hugh,
senior CIA officer. Montgomery,
Officer. Paul Farbler, who became
the first officially designated Chief
of Station in Moscow. Other CIA
officers in Moscow circa 1962 included.
(Rodney Carlson) Bill Warbley, and
possibly John D. Nemingway.

Millarytelligence personnel
in Moscow included Paul Adams
"(soul) Attack (Navy Ted moon.

at Readquarters, the chief of the
Soviet Russia Division was John
Mawry, followed by Howard Osborne.
and then David E. Murphy.

SECRET
11142584

SECRET
When Longelle returned to the
working for the
United States, ha continued wo
State Department. Heresumed [his] CIA
duties on a partetime basis in 1961 [He dealt
with communications between Washing lon and Moscow.
In September 1961 le resumed [his] CIA duties
on a full-time basis at Headquarters.
He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia
División, External Operations, Africa.....
and Europe. We present at present
he is still with the CIA land is still 32
paid by the State Department but he
plans to retire soon.

SECRET
11112585

Russell August Langelle
SECRET
Genzman
5-4-78
10-7-22
30
(495-18-8808)
M
3 ch.
A Sept 50
+mil.
SRD. (SR9) language, operatimal tm
Nov 55 resigned from agency.
word-disgruntled!
inter in
fot
Hecht Co
bailed
State
Mar 856
Vienna
Sept 56
Ememo from director
all
when returns
(Dulles)
15 knew
(SR.9-internal or component
coupde of
officers in fint cos Paul Garbler]
SE Johin Maury
SR7Joe Bulich) 3
Cl. of Ops Quentin Johnson
Banger Resevalter
Frank Levy
Ted Polling
Jack eindscri
Oune sworbuck) 23
Ed Galloway 03
11112586
