JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 10/2/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10072-10186
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 010313

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
FROM:
TO: HESS, JACQUELINE.
TITLE:
DATE: 07/31/1978
PAGES: 64
SUBJECTS: OSWALD, MARINA; FINANCES, INCOME TAXES.
OSWALD, LEE; PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD, MILITARY SERVICE,
COURT-MAR

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Includes insurance forms, death certificate, & military documents of Oswald. Box 189.

v9.1 1

of HEALTH, EDUCATION,
DEPARTMENT
U.S.A. 
REFER TO:
IPO-4-5-1 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21235
JUL 28 1978

Ms. Jackie Hess
Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 House Office Building, Annex 2
Washington, D.C. 20515
010313
Dear Ms. Hess:

This is in response to Mr. Blakey's May 15, 1978, request for access
to all files and documents concerning or referring to Lee Harvey Oswald
and Marina Oswald. The following documents are enclosed:

1. Form SS-5, Application for Social Security Account Number, completed
by Lee Harvey Oswald.

2. Form SS-5, Application for Social Security Account Number, completed
by Marina Oswald.

3. Numident showing name changes for Marina Oswald.

4. Form OA-C5, Application for Survivors Insurance Benefits, completed
by Marina Oswald.

5. Certificate of Death issued by the City of Dallas for
Lee Harvey Oswald.

6. Marriage certificate (and translation) for Lee Harvey Oswald and
Marina Nikolaevna Prusakova.

7. Birth certificate (and translation) for Marina Nikolaevna.

8. Birth certificate (and translation) showing child born to
Lee Harvey Oswald and Marina Nikolaevna Oswald.

9. OA-C704, Certification of Contents of Document(s) or Record(s),
re birth of child to Lee H. Oswald and Marina Nikolaevna Prusakova.
NW 88326 Docld:32245128 Page 2

2

10. Form OA-C654, Certification By Uniformed Services, for Lee Harvey Oswald.

11. Letter dated 7/25/63 from the Department of the Navy to
Lee Harvey Oswald.

12. Form DD-214, Armed Forces of the United States Report of Transfer
or Discharge, for Lee Harvey Oswald.

13. Undesirable Discharge from the Armed Forces of the United States,
issued to Lee Harvey Oswald.

14. Forms OA-C668, Claimant's Report to Social Security Administration,
completed by Marina Oswald on 3/27/64 and 5/1/65.

15. Form OA-C669, Claimant's Report About Work to the Social Security
Administration, completed by Marina Oswald on 10/8/64.

16. Form SSA-1425, Reporting Card, completed by Marina Porter on 5/4/66.

17. Forms OA-C777, Annual Report of Earnings, completed by Marina Oswald
for 1964 and 1965.

18. Form OAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall,
Inc.

19. Form OAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by Texas School Book
Depository.

20. Form OAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by William B. Reily,
Company, Inc.

21. OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re contact with Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall, Inc.

22. OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re earnings under Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall, Inc.

23. Copies of three pages of the Warren Commission Report re employment of
Lee Harvey Oswald prior to service in the Marine Corps.

24. Form OA-C790, Request for E/R Action.

25. Memorandum dated 6/3/65, re remarriage of Marina Oswald.

26. Forms SSA-L735 sent to Marina Porter and completed by Mrs. Porter.
NW 88326 Docld:32245128 Page 3

3
27. Forms OA-C107, Determination of Resumption of Award.

28. Forms OA-C528b, Determination of Termination of Entitlement or
Suspension of Payments Based on Supporting Evidence on File.

29. Forms OA-C610, Payee, Address Change, or Hold Check Request.

30. Form OA-C526, Benefit Summary.

31. Form OA-C101, Determination of Award.

32. Form OA-C589, receipt for check.

33. Form OA-C596, 1965 Conversion of Benefit Rates.

34. Form AC-512, Appointment of Representative, completed by
Marina N. Oswald and James H. Martin.

35. Form OAC-5002, Report of Contact, with James H. Martin.

36. Form OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re Lee Harvey Oswald's death.

The above-mentioned documents are being sent to you in their entirety.
We have withheld only the records of wage and self-employment income
maintained under the direction of 42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2). This record is
created on the basis of tax return information received from the Internal
Revenue Service. Under 26 U.S.C. 6103, this information is given to the
Social Security Administration for the administration of the Social
Security Act and redisclosure is prohibited. You may request this
information directly from the Internal Revenue Service.

I understand that the Dallas Region has already sent you the local
folder on Lee Harvey Oswald. We are also checking with the National
Archives to determine if it may have further social security records
on Lee Harvey Oswald or Marina Oswald. To date, we have found no
records under the aliases you provided. We will contact you if further
documents are located.

Enclosures
Sincerely yours,

By
Robert P. Dynum
Associate Commissioner
for Program Operations
NW 88326 Docld:32245128 Page 4

Form SS-5
ABURY DEPARTMENT APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER L 433-54-3937
FERNAL REVENUE SERVICE REQUIRED UNDER THE FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS ACT
(Revised 7-46) READ INSTRUCTIONS ON BACK BEFORE FILLING IN FORM DO NOT WRITE IN THE ABOVE SPACE

FILL IN EACH ITEM. PRINT IN BLACK OR DARK BLUE INK OR USE TYPEWRITER FOR ALL ITEMS EXCEPT TURE, IF THE INFORMATION CALLED FOR IN ANY ITEM IS NOT KNOWN WRITE "UNKNOWN."
PRINT NAME YOU GAVE YOUR PRESENT FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME. IF YO LAST NAME MIDDLE NAME OR INITIAL, DRAW A LINE
LEE HARVEY Oswald
MAILING ADDRESS (NO. AND ST., P. O. BOX, OR RFD) (CITY) (ZONE) (STATE)
EMPLOYER. OR IF UNEMPLOYED, THE PRINT FULL NAME GIVEN YOU AT BIRTH
NAME YOU WILL USE WHEN EMPLOYED LEE HARVEY OSLUAli
2 126ECHANGEST. NO, LA. 3 PLACE OF BIRTH (CITY) (COUNTY) (STATE)
AGE ON LAST BIRTHDAY DATE OF BIRTH (MONTH) (DAY) (YEAR)
NEW ORLEANS LA.
4 15 OCT. 181939
FATHER'S FULL NAME, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LIVING OR DEAD MOTHER'S FULL NAME BEFORE EVER MARRIED, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LIVING OR DEAD
• ROBERT LEE OSWAld • MARGRET CLEVIERY
9 SEX: (MARK (X) WHICH) OR RACE OR COLOR (MARK (X) WHICH) (IF OTHER, SPECIFY)
MALE FEMALE WHITE NEGRO OTHER
Π ☑ HAVE YOU EVER BEFORE APPLIED
FOR OR HAD A SOCIAL SECURITY OR
RAILROAD RETIREMENT NUMBER? YES NO
(MARK (X) WHICH) DON
ATE
Π ☑ 11 STATE
ATE

BUSINESS NAME OF EMPLOYER. IF UNEMPLOYED, WRITE "UNEMPLOYED"
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE

42
EMPLOYER'S ADDRESS (NO. AND STREET) (CITY) (ZONE) (STATE) IF ANSWER IS "YES" PRINT THE
STATE IN WHICH YOU FIRST
APPLIED AND WHEN
ALSO PRINT YOUR ACCOUNT
NUMBER IF YOU KNOW IT
TODAY'S DATE WRITE YOUR NAME AS USUALLY WRITTEN (DO NOT PRINT) DALOU NOBER
13 16-5528-7 14

RETURN COMPLETED APPLICATION TO NEAREST SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION FIELD OFFICE
NW 88326 Docld:32245128 Page 5

NICHOLAGUNA
MINKIND NIsHosnova

ANGANOGS,
HOLHOVA
RUSSIA

PreOSAKOVA
20
020

5-12
NW 88326 Docld:32245128 Page 6
3

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 467 82 4034 PRINTED ON 071978
FORM 1 APPL/CYCLE 08 64 ENTRY O REF# 65163940518

NAME LINE MARIΝΑ NICHOLAEVNA OSWALD 243

SIGNATURE CODE S
BIRTH DATE 0717941 SEX 2 RACE 1
C

MOTHER CLAUDIA V PROOSAKOVA FATHER NICHOLAI UNKNOWN
BIRTHPLACE ARCHANGEL UR*

REQ BY BR 032 SEC UNIT CLERK 00827 DATE 195 PAGE 1 OF 3
C

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 467 82 4034 PRINTED ON 071978

DO IRS FORM 2 APPL/CYCLE 121175 ENTRY 2 REF# 75165960637

NAME LINE MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PORTER 636
2ND NA ΜΕ MARINA NIKOLAEVNA OSWALD 243

SIGNATURE CODE S
BIRTH DATE 0717941 SEX 2 RACE O
C

MOTHER KLAVDIA PROOSAKOVA FATHER ALEXANDR MEDVEDEV
BIRTHPLACE • ARCHANGEL UR*
C

REQ BY BR 032 SEC UNIT CLERK 00827 DATE: 195 PAGE 2 OF 3
C
OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 467 82 4034 PRINTED ON 071978

DO COO FORM 8 APPL/CYCLE 011976 ENTRY 2 REF#76010006538

NAME LINE. M N PORTER 636
2ND NAME MARINA NIC OSWALD 243

SIGNATURE CODE D
BIRTH DATE 0717941 SEX 2 RACE O
C

NW 8832 