180-10143-10152
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
BLORINI NICUL
8/17/76	Box 28
[AMERICAN EMBASSY/PARIS] Folder 13
#3

1973 RETIRED

NOV 63 GAT IN PARIS []
NO GOT COVER []
LOU OPS []
SEPT. 62 ] ARRIVED []

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

DEFENSE DOERIAS BRANCH 6 CHIEF
TWO YRS IN SEC 6
SEPT 1960 ASSIGNED
PARIS []
NOT INFRED CONTACT
EV 2'/2 wks PERSON W/ []
MADE ON OUTSIDE BY TELE TO OFF COVER
NEVER WRITTEN DOWN []

SEL 6 SUPPORT
OPRES OF SR DIV
REPOSING INFO IN SUPPORT OF SR DIV - CLASSKIL
ESPIONAGE W/ USSR
PENETRATION OF PURPS OF ESPIONAGE
CARTO
DEMOG
SOCIOLOGISTS
SU, POL INFO PERSONS
IT WAS IN Dolo PIROSE AT THE TIME
20-25 WHEN NE CAME IN

[JAPAN]
FEB 1955- JUNE 1960
CHIEF OF SOU BASE OF N. ASIA COMMAND...

180-10143-10152

2
ATTACHED TO FAR EASTERN COM of ARMED FORCES
ONE OF FOUR BASES: THEY WERE TARGES
SOU BALO BUT NOT AGAINST JAPAN
SOU, JAPAN, KOREA, CHINA
9 OCT 10 IN SOU BALE
ASSIGNED AS HEAD IN 1955

TIPES OF OPS FROM SOU BASE
ESPIONAGE
LOU OPS - PSYCHO WARFARE, RADO TRANS-
MISSION TO INTERNAL SOU AUDIENCE

ESP - SOU NAVAL & INDUSTRIAL TARGETS IN
SOV PORTS USING MAINLY JAPANESE OPERATIVES

EXTREMEL LIM WORK W/ MILITARY
WOULD BRIEF MILITARY
TRIED TO WORIC W/ CLANDESTINE UNITS of
ARMY, NAVY HAD NOQUE
BUT THEY HAD LO DEGREE OF PROFESSIONA
LISM
GAID IT
MILITARY WAS RUNNING OPS BUT I WAS
Neute coNFIRMED
MILITARY INTELL PERGO
CAPT PEREZ OSI
JONN & SAULDY ARMY HEA
OP. SUPP. WAG PROVIDED BY NAVY
I.E. COUER FOR PERSONS CONTACTING SOVIETS

CANNOT RECALL SPECIFIC INFO ABOUT MILI. USING
AM. MILITARY
EXCEPT ROMERS OF TRAFFICKING
THE IND. INTELL AGENCIES WOULD HAVE HANDLED

SUPERIORS
3
CALL TO
HIS ATTENTION
WI SOUS
NO COCRETE INFO DE AU CONTACT
CHIEF OF N. ASIA COMM - 1955: RETIRED VICE
ADM. O.
THEN HARRY LITTLE 1957

HIS COMUNICATIONS WERD GENERALLY BACK
TO HQ
N. ASIA COMM AT TIME WACO TIED U/
KOREA + JAPAN

DOES NOT KNOW WHO AO QUERSIONT FOR U-2
WAS WELL COMPARTMENTED
NEVER LEARNED
ASSOURED IT WAS PARAMILITARY

N. ASIA RACE RAN NO PARAMILITARY OPS
MOST SMALLER STATIONS DID NOT

DOESN'T RECALL DICUSSING USING AM DEFECTORS TO
IST CHIEF DIR
THOUGHT KUB WOULD SUSPECT NES FROM BEGINNING
KNOW A LOT ABOUT KGB
FROM DISPLACEMENT OF CITI

AM ESP INTEREST WAS MUCH MORE SHORT RANGE
AS TO PRECULDE PROGRAM
NOT IN AM WAY OF DOING THINGS

LESENING OF TENGIQUS DID ALLOW SOME
SHALLOW PENE: SHORT TERM TOURISTS, FOREIG

BUT NO DIRECT I OBVIOUΣ σΓΕΕΕΤ

4
435-173-A

DOES REMEMBER MEMO

DUE OF HIS CONTACTS
LAMPRELL * WAY RBT. SINCLAIR O. OF CANCER FEW
YARE AGO; WAS SR. OFF IN SOU. OFF OF PARIS
STATION (#2 MAN)

WALTER WALTIGAN =
JAMES FUNT WAS HIS NORMAL CONTACT

DOESN'T KNOW WHY TIME DELAY
ASSUMES HALTIGAN WASN'T AVAILABLE

(RERALLS)
WROTE MEMO SPONTANGOUSY BECAUSE OF NEWS CAST
WHEN HE NEARD INFO ABOUT MINSK, [MARAMING)
[ FOREIGNER, JREMEMBERED STATE DEPT. INFO

REDWOOD: CLAND OPS / CHIEF OF SR WAS RESPONDA
ESPOSED TO TARGETS AGAINST SOUS OUT OF USSR 2 BE

[CI WAS STAFF REVIEW, BUT SUPPOSEDLY NO COMMAND
VOICE; BUT THEY DID HAVE DHEIR OWN
CLOSELY HELD OPS].
THE GANG OP APPROVAL FOR ELGRY OPERATION

POSSIBLE OR PROBABLE THAT THEY RAU OPS IN
HIK GEO. TARGET

REGEARLAH WAS AN OP FUNCTION OF THE 6 BRANCH
CANNOT REMEMBER REGEARUN'S EXACT MANDATE

BRANCH
1 SCANDINAVIA 5 FAR EAST
2 GREECE INTER BRANCH
3 MIDD + LATIN

5
RESEARCH WOUD GET INFO FROM DEFECTORS ABOUT
REALITIES
DETECTORS, GETTING DETAILS ABOUT SOVIET
LIFE

WOULD "NQUALLY" PUMP PERSON LICE O. ADUT
LIFE IN USSR

DOESN'T PERSONALLY KNOW OF DEFECTOR BING.
USED AS SOURCE IN HIS BRIEF TIME IN
SOU. UNION
AGENCY BENEFITED FROM FBI DEBRIEFINGS
camas
DIV00 HAD MANDATE IN US

BELIEVES [FIELDS FROM CONECNOS] WAS DEBRIEFED

BELIEVES HE GOT INFO ON AMER IN SOU UNION.
FROM STATE DEPT VISAS OR FROM PRESS

6 RESEARCH SEC
CHIEF: CANNOT REMEM
DEP. CHIEF: OLDER WOMAN AT Act of RETIREMENT

RODOLF
BALABAN (UKR-AMER.) CAN REMEMBER NAMES

DATE OF DISCU
LAST DAYS OF WORK: 300 OR 4TH WK OF JULY 1962
SO DISCUSSION TOOK PLACE I

AGDOMED NO NO BOON SENT OUT BY KGB SO DID
NOT DEBRIEF

SUMMER 1960 6/215 LEFT JAPAN, TRAVELLED
TIRO EUROPE ON LEAVE W/ FAMILY UNTIL SEPT.
COULD NOT HAVE BEEN 1960.

USED WRONG SPIN THE MEMU

6
KUJUMP: PS DIV; HAD CONSACTS DIV FOR DE
BRIEFING

[ SUIT CHANNELS: INS, FBI]
YBE
HAD REUD ONE STATE DEPT DISPATCH ON
RETURNING AM
IF HE GAVE UP PASSPORT HAD TO APPE IN
SAMELWAY TO RETURN

BELIEVES AM HAD CONCACTS INITIATED BY NIM

KNEW WHATEVER WAS IN STATE DEPT DISPATCH
ABOUT NIM
O LOOKS ODD
CIA'S OWN EVALUATIOv
BECAUSE HE WAS ALONGO TO LIE
+ MARRY
IN

CONTROLED STATION COULD TALK & CONTACT IN
PERFUNCTORY MANNER

1445-60
DOESN'T BELIEVE MORE THAN 10 CAME TO
THEIR ATTENTION
FROM STATE
MILI

REDSKIN - LEGAL TRAVELLERS PROGRAM
VERY LEGIT PRESENCE IN USSR
DEBRIEFING AGENCY WOULD WRITE INFO & PASS IT ON
WE BELIEVES HE WOULD HAVE KINOWN

7
BELIEVES IF INCONCEIVABLE O WOULD HAVE BEEN
OPERATIVE
NO INFO

KOB OPERATIONS MADE IT CONC HE COULD HAVE
BERN LAY και ΦERTILE

MINSK
WAD SOME SPECIAL DESIGN PLANTS OF INTERES
AVIATION
NUCLEAR ENERGY
BACTERIO. WARFARE

CAN'T REMEM WHICH WERE IN MINSK
ANYONG NEAR THEM WAG OF INTEসঙ্গে
CONFIDENT O was NOT WORKING IN SUCH.
A GEURITY
WAS HOT CITAR MILI OR SECURITY AREA
TNE
BELIEVES THEY HAD ENGIC INFO ON RADIO FACTORY
IN OFF. OF RESEARCHT REPORTING

WASN'T AWARE OF KOB FAC IN MINSK

LEGAL TRAV PROG
HEADOO BY ALEXANDER SOKALOFF SR DIV
BEGAN PRE 1960 AS LESSENING OF TENSIONS
BEGAN
SOK CAME OUT AS CHILD WI RUSSIAN PARENTS

DEFS WERE KEPT AT ARUS LENGTH
MEANT WAD RELA WELL BEFORE A'S TRIP

8
CHEU WHAT NED BE DOING, COULD OIVIVE
RED'TS

C. WAS NOT IUOLVED IN IT
C WAS OPPOSSED BECAUSE IT WAS TOO SHORT TERM
IN TIME OF RESOURCES, RISK

CATE May NAVE BEEN USED BY AGENCY, BUT
PDGUN'T KNOW, CAID NE BOUELES TOOT'D
BE TOD
HARVEY STORY
MUST HAVE
CONNE CRYPTONIM HE WAS USING AT STORY
[PONDERS?]

WOUD HAVE TO HAVE PROMPTING OF MEMORY
DOUBTS IT WOULD BE COURBODY'S TRUE AME

NELLO CONTACTED BY AM/BODY ABOया 0.02.
MEMO

O.INTEREST WAS JUST A LOAD-INO FLOWOW UP
NIT UNUSUAL
O'S GONO TO USSR WAS UNUSUAL, LEFT HIM
OPEN TO CONCACT BY KOB
-BUT HE WAS THEREFORE OF MARGINAL IN
TREST

NQUA TO NOT MAKE CHECK FOP 201
QUCE THET DECIDED NOT TO USE HM
IT'S POSS AL COLLEAQUE COULD HAVE
CHECKED, BUT DOESN'T RECALL ANY

9
SUBORDINATES
BALABAN
RICARD [WINK]?

CHARLES COX LIAISON W/ TECH SUPPORTS DIU
Lie. CONCEALMENT DEVICE)
DEPUTIES: CHACHALADZE, DAVID FOR 3-4 MOS.
? AVERILL
IN 1960
A.T. STEWART, STAYED ON -
REMEMBER MORE DETAILS
BECKY BALABAN
LOULD

201: INDICATION THAT RED FINO BGEN MADE
FOR PROV. OP. APPPDUAL: WOULD INDICATE
OP. USET INTEREST; WOULD REFER

DOEGN'T KNOW CRITERIA FOR OPENING 2015
MANY #'S REMAINED OPON W/O BEING ASSETS

AGENT PROPS WERE
ASSIGNED TO ATSUGI]

OSSWALD

WHATEVER I MEANT BY HARVEY HAD NOTHING
TO DO WY HIM

COUNTERIIST
CL INTELLIGENCE
SIG: SIGNAL INTELL, BUT NOT SURE
NSA OR MILI MIGHT HAVE PICKED NAVE
UP IN TRANSMISSION IF HE HAD
ACCESS TO SUCH

10
201 SEU OF
REGISTRY COULD ANSWER QUES OF ENTRIES
AG: DOESN'T KNOW

[CROSSES & ENTRIES: DOESN'T KINOW]
BOELELS PERUNA CHARGE MEANS SAY IN
REGISTRY WY. NO OP SIGNIFICANCE
SUNING
WOULD BE ROUTINE. IF SUMILARLY OPENED ON
OTHER DEFECTORS

[ BRANCH 6 ] DIDN'T HAVE INTERES

STATE DISP. WOULD HAVE BEEN PASSED ON FOR
INFO RACK TO REGISTRY UND KEPT IN
DOCS

BELIEVES FROM мемо не SAW SEVERAL DISP
WOULD BO NORMAL TO SEE CONGECU SERIES

DDO
PSY CH
FOREIGN CI PARAMILITARY
LINE DIVISIONS

BELIEVES DOC IS PASSIVE & NOT OPERATIONAL

THEY GOT VISAS TOO EASILY

UNUSUAL BAJAVIOR"
DEFECTION, REASONS UNKNOWN, DISORIENTED
ON MISSION,
(DOESN'T THINK HE WAS SENT BACK
BUT DOESN'T EXCLUDE ROSS.).
MARRIED RUSSIAN

11
DOESN'T BELIEVE WE WERE ABLE TO MONITOR NM
IN SOV. U - HOULD HAVE BEEN TOO RISKY

HIS REVEALUNO MILI SECRETS WOULD HAVE BEEN
OF INTEREST

12
WOULD MEMO HAVE EXISTED ABOUT HIS INTEREST IN LHO
DOESN'T THINK YO NOL REMEM DOING SO
NOT CUSTOMARY

WHAT WAS FIRST ODASID) DISPATCH REC'D

NOTE: C'S MEMO OF 11/25/63 PRESUPPOSES A LOT OF EARLY
INFO ON O'S ACTIVITIES IN MINSK
