JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10073-10093
RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 004876
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: RUBY, SAMUEL
FROM: RUBY, SAMUEL
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 01/24/1978
PAGES: 118
SUBJECTS: RUBY, SAM
RUBY, JACK, BACKGROUND, ASSOCIATES AND RELATIVES
DOCUMENT TYPE: OTHER TEXTUAL
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: W/cover letter. Box #:102.

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88326 Date: 2025

v9.1 1
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 1

16250 Bircher Ave.
Granada Hills, Ca.
91344
Ms Donald Purday, Jr.

Jan. 24, 1978
004876

I have had xeroxs made of my tax
returns and am enclosing the coffies
for the years 1967 to 1976
I and my wife have looked in
the vations places where we s
normally keep out important papess
and we buld not find the
returns for the years 1962 to 1966
We have moved feat times since
at Pallas 1966
It is fossibile
that leve disposed of them in the
process of moving fropy one place
to another We greffably nepts
anticipated any further Use for them
I the foul be any other documents
thefoul

that I have in mybossession and
you are ing need off them daping the
lefeutse of your investigation I will
be happy mail them to you.

Sincerely yougs..
Samuel uby
by
NW 88326 Docld 32245535 Page 2

Form.
5329
Department of the Treasury
Intornal Revenue Service
Return for Individual
Retirement Savings Arrangement
(Under Sections 408 or 409 of the Internal Revenue Code)
►Attach to Form 1040.
1976
Only This Side of Form is
Open to Public Inspection
If you have established a retirement savings arrangement you must complete complete Part I and Part II and attach this
form to your individual income tax return, Form 1040. In addition: (1) if you claim a deduction on your Form 1040
for contributions to your retirement savings arrangement, complete Part III; (2) if you have made contributions in
excess of your allowable limitation for this year or prior years, complete Part IV; (3) if you are not yet age 591/2
when you receive a distribution from your retirement savings arrangement which is not due to a disability, a rollover
contribution to another plan or retirement savings arrangement, or the transfer of an amount to a former spouse
under a divorce decree, you must complete Part V; (4) if you are 701/2 or older on the last day of the year, see in-
structions to determine if you are required to complete Part VI.
Name SAMUEL D. Ruby
Address (Number and street)
16250 BIRCHER ST
City or town, State and ZIP code
GRANADA HILLS CA
If you are not required to file a Form 1040 check here
Part
Individual and Retirement Savings Information
1 Type of individual retirement savings arrangement:
(a) Individual retirement account
(b) Individual retirement annuity
(c) Individual retirement bonds
2 Were you during any part of the year an active participant in a qualified pension, profit-sharing or stock bonus
plan, including a qualified Keogh (HR 10) plan, or were you covered under a section 403(b) annuity or custodial
account or under a government retirement plan other than the Social Security of Railroad Retirement Acts?
(Volunteer firemen and military reservists see specific instructions for line 2).!
YesNo
If "Yes," you are not allowed a deduction for your 1976 contributions to your individual retirement arrangement.
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this return, including accompanying schedules and statements, and to the best of my
knowledge and belief it is true, correct, and complete. If prepared by a person other than the taxpayer, this declaration is based on all information
of which the préparer has any knowledge.
Your signature Date

Preparer's signature (other than taxpayer)
Date
Preparer's identification number
(see General Instruction B)
Preparer's address'and ZIP code 13717 VANOWEN G.VAN Nuys CA 91405
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 3
Form 5329

Form 5329 (1976)
Part II
Your Social Security Number
This Page Is Not Open to Public Inspection
Page 2
Attach Copy B of Form 5498 here ►
3 If filed by surviving spouse or beneficiary of an individual who created this retirement savings arrangement check here ►
and enter name and social security number of individual for whom the arrangement was established
4 Indicate your age as of the end of the year (If you checked item 3 do not complete this item):
(a) Under age 5912
(b) Age 591½ to 701/2
(c) Over age 701½ (if you check item (c) complete Part VI below)
5 (a) If, during the year, you received a distribution of your entire account from a qualified pension, profit-
sharing or stock bonus plan, because either (i) you terminated employment or (ii) your employer
terminated the plan, and you transferred (rolled over) such distribution to your arrangement, check here
(b) If you checked (a) did you transfer the entire amount of the distribution (less any amounts you con-
tributed to the qualified plan-see instructions) to your arrangement within 60 days of receipt of such
distribution (or 12/31/76 if (a) (ii) applies and you received such distribution prior to 11/2/76)?.
(c) If (b) was "Yes," complete lines (i) through (iii) below:
(i) Date of transfer to arrangement Month Day Year
(ii) Date distribution was made to you from the plan
(iii) Name of trustee or insurance company to which the transfer was made (If bonds were purchased state "Bonds").

(d) (i) If within one taxable year, you received a distribution of your entire account from your employer's qualified pension,
profit-sharing or stock bonus plan because the plan was terminated by your employer did you:
(A) receive such amount on or after July 4, 1974 but prior to January 1, 1976,
(B) transfer such amount, reduced by the amount of the income tax paid on the distribution on
your 1974 or 1975 income tax return, to an arrangement and
(C) file a claim for refund of such tax paid? (Check "Yes" only if (A), (B) and (C) ALL apply.)
YesNo
(ii) If (d) (i) is "Yes," and you have received such refund or credit for such tax paid enter:
(A) Date refund or credit received
(B) Date refund or amount of credit was contributed to your retirement savings arrangement
Note: See Definition C in the Instructions concerning rollover contributions.
Month Day Year
6 If, during the year, you transferred any funds from one retirement savings arrangement to another retire- Month Day Year
ment savings arrangement, enter the date of transfer here
Caution: Such a transfer may be a taxable distribution.
7 If, during the tax year covered by this form, you have entered into a prohibited transaction under section 4975 or borrowed any amount from
your retirement savings arrangement or pledged any part of your arrangement as security for a loan, check here
Note: See instructions for the tax consequences of such transactions.
Computation of Allowable Deduction
(If you have entered into a prohibited transaction under section 4975, do not complete Part III or Part
IV for the retirement savings arrangement with which you entered into such prohibited transaction.)
8 Wages, tips and other compensation from Form 1040 (if a joint return do not include compensation of spouse)
(See definition B in the instructions for the meaning of compensation.)
9 15% of line 8 or $1,500, whichever is lesser (if you are 701½ or over or answered "Yes" to line 2, enter zero).
10 Amount paid by you or on your behalf under all your retirement savings arrangements (do not include any
amounts which were considered as "rollover contributions," see lines 5 and 6, or the purchase price of any
individual retirement bonds redeemed within 12 months of their date of purchase (see instructions) or life
insurance portion of your endowment premium as reported on Form 5498 box 6).

11 Allowable deduction, lesser of line 9 or line 10 (enter here and on Form 1040, line 40a)
Part IV Tax on Excess Contributions
12 Tax on excess contributions (see Part IV of the Specific Instructions if Part III, line 10 exceeds line 11). Enter
tax from worksheet here and on Form 1040, line 61
Part V Tax on Premature Distributions
13 Tax on premature distributions (see Part V of the Specific Instructions if you received a distribution from
your retirement savings arrangement before you have attained age 591/2). Enter tax from worksheet here and
on Form 1040, line 57.
Part VI Tax on Undistributed Retirement Accounts and Annuities
(See Instructions before completing this Part.)
14 Tax based on current year distribution method, see worksheet in Instructions
15 Tax based on aggregate distribution methods, see worksheet in Instructions

16 Tax due, lesser of line 14 or 15, enter here and on Form 1040, in your total for line 62. On the dotted line to
the left of the line 62 entry space write "4974 tax," and show the amount
NW 88326 Docld: 32245535 Page 4
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1976-0-218-176
Ε.Ι. 13-2687299

Form 1040
Department of the Treasury-Internal Revenue Service
U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
For the year January 1-December 31, 1976, or other taxable year beginning
Please print or type
Name (If joint return, give first names and initials of both)
SAMUEL & PHYLLIS
Present home address (Number and street, including apartment number, or rural route)
16250 BIRCHER ST
City, town or post office, State and ZIP code,
GRANADA HILLS CA

Filing Status
(Check only ONE box)
, 1976 ending
This space for IRS use only
, 1976
, 19
Last name
Your social security number
Ruby
For Pivacy Act Notification,
see page 5 of Instructions.

Occu- Yours SIE
pation Spouse's SIE
1 Single
2 Married filing joint return (even if only one had income)
3
Married filing separately. If spouse is also filing give
4
5
spouse's social security number in designated space above
and enter full
name here
Unmarried Head of Household. See page 7 of instructions
to see if
you qualify
Qualifying widow(er). with dependent child (Year
)
6a Regular Yourself Spouse Enter number of
boxes checked
b First names of your dependent children who
lived with you
SUSA
THOMAS
Enter
number
See page 7 of Instructions.
e
Exemptions
c Number of other dependents (from line 7).
d Total (add lines 6a, b, and c)
Age 65 or older. Yourself Spouse
Blind.
Yourself Spouse
f TOTAL (add lines 6d and e)
(a) Name
(c) Months lived in your
home. If born or died
during year, write B or D.
7 Other dependents:
(d) Did dependent
have income of $750
or more?
checked
Do you wish to designate $1 of your taxes for this fund?
If joint return, does your spouse wish to designate $1?
)
(b) Relationship
8 Presidential Election
Campaign Fund
Note: you check the "Yes"
box(es) it will not increase your
tax or reduce your refund.
(e) Amount furnished for dependent's support
By YOU. If 100%
write ALL.
By OTHERS includ-
ing dependent.
$
Yes
No
Yes
No
9 Wages, salaries, tips, and other employee compensation (Attach Forms W-2. If unavail-
able, see page 6 of Instructions.)"

10a Dividends (See pages 9 and) 1
of Instructions
If gross dividends and other distributions are over $400, list in Part I of Schedule B.)
less exclusion
Balance
10b less exclusion
Balance
10c

11 Interest income. 1
(If $400 or less, enter total without listing in Schedule B)
If over $400, enter total and list in Part II of Schedule B
11 5195
12 Income other than wages, dividends, and interest (from line 37)
13 Total (add lines 9, 10c, 11 and 12)
14 Adjustments to income (such as moving expense, etc. from line 42)
15a Subtract line 14 from line 13
b Disability income exclusion (sick pay) (attach Form 2440)
c Adjusted gross income. Subtract line 15b from line 15a, then complete Part III on back.
(If less than $8,000, see page 2 of Instructions on "Earned Income Credit.")
2546
13 7741
14 -9-
15a 7741

15b -0-
15c 7741
16 Tax, check if from: Tax Table
Schedule G
Tax Rate Schedule X, Y or Z
Schedule D
Form 2555 OR
Form 4726
16
17a Multiply $35.00 by the number of exemptions on line 6d
17a NO
Enter
larger (if box on line 3 is checked
see page 10 of Instructions)
of a orb
17b
18 Balance. Subtract line 17c from line 16 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
18
19 Credits (from line 54)
20 Balance. Subtract line 19 from line 18 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
21 Other taxes (from line 62)
19

20

21
22 Total (add lines 20 and 21)
22
23a Total Federal income tax withheld. or 320
(attach Forms W-2,
or W-2P to front)

23a
b 1976 estimated tax payments
(include amount allowed
as credit from 1975 return)
23b 602
c Earned income credit.
(from page 2
of Instructions)
23c
d Amount paid with Form 4868
23d
e Other payments (from line 66)
23e
Pay amount on line 25 in
full with this return, Write
social security number on
check or money order and
make payable to Internal
Revenue Service.
24 TOTAL (add lines 23a through e)
24
604
25
If line 22 is larger than line 24, enter BALANCE DUE IRS
(Check here☐, if Form 2210 or Form 2210F is attached. See page 10 of instructions.)
25
26
If line 24 is larger than line 22, enter amount OVERPAID
26
322
27
Amount of line 26 to be REFUNDED TO YOU
27
722
28
28 Amount of line 26 to be credited on 1977 estimated tax |
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this return, including accompanying schedules and statements, and to the best of my knowledge and belief it is
true, correct, and complete. Declaration of preparer (other than taxpayer) is based on all information of which preparer has any knowledge.
Your signature
Date
Spouse's signature (if filing jointly, BOTH must sign even if only one had income)
Date
Preparer's signature (and employer's name, if any)
Identifying number (see instructions)
Address (and ZIP code)
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 5
==End of OCR for page 55==

Form 1040 (1976)
Pant Income other than Wages, Dividends and Interest
29 Business income or (loss) (attach Schedule C)
30a Net gain or (loss) from sale or exchange of capital assets (attach Schedule D)
29
30a
Page 2
30b
b 50% of capital gain distributions (not reported on Schedule D-see page 10 of Instructions).
31 Net gain or (loss) from Supplemental Schedule of Gains and Losses (attach Form 4797)
32a Pensions, annuities, rents, royalties, partnerships, estates or trusts, etc. (attach Schedule E)
31
32a
32b
:
b Fully taxable pensions and annuities (not reported on Schedule E-see page 10 of Instructions)
33 Farm income or (loss) (attach Schedule F)
:
33
1
3546
1000
34 State income tax refunds (
applies if refund is for year in which you took the
standard deduction-others see page 10 of instructions
34
35
Alimony received
35
36 Other (state nature and source-see page 11 of Instructions)
36
37 Total (add lines 29 through 36). Enter here and on line 12
37
2546
Part II Adjustments to Income
38 Moving expense (attach Form 3903)
38
39 Employee business expense (attach Form 2106)
39
40a Payments to an individual retirement arrangement from attached Form 5329, Part III .
40a
40b Payments to a Keogh (H.R. 10) retirement plan
40b
41 Forfeited interest penalty for premature withdrawal (see page 12 of Instructions)
41
42 Total (add lines 38 through 41). Enter here and on line 14
42

Part III Tax Computation
43 Adjusted gross income (from line 15c). If you have unearned income and can be claimed as a
dependent on your parent's return, check here ☐ and see page 9 of Instructions
If you itemize deductions, check here and enter total from Schedule A, line 40, and attach Schedule A
b Standard deduction-If you do not itemize deductions, check here, and:
43
7741
44a
44
5686
45
2055
If you checked
46 Multiply total number of exemptions claimed on line 6f by $750
46
3000
the box on
2 or 5, enter the greater of $2,100 OR 16% of line 43-but not more than $2,800
line
1 or 4, enter the greater of $1,700 OR 16% of line 43-but not more than $2,400
3, enter the greater of $1,050 OR 16% of line 43-but not more than $1,400
47 Taxable income. Subtract line 46 from line 45 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
45 Subtract line 44 from line 43 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
47
· If line 47 is $20,000 or less and you did not average your income on Schedule G, or figure your tax on Form 2555, Exemption of Income Earned Abroad, find
your tax in Tax Table. Enter tax on line 16 and check appropriate box.
• If line 47 is more than $20,000, figure your tax on the amount on line 47 by using Tax Rate Schedule X, Y, Z, or if applicable, the alternative tax from Schedule
4741
D, income averaging from Schedule G, tax from Form 2555 or maximum tax from Form 4726. Enter tax on line 16 and check appropriate box.

Credits
48 Credit for the elderly (attach Schedules R & RP)
49 Credit for child care expenses (attach Form 2441)
50 Investment credit (attach Form 3468)
51 Foreign tax credit (attach Form 1116)
48
49
50
51
52 Contributions to candidates for public office credit-see page 12 of Instructions
52
53 Work Incentive (WIN) Credit (attach Form 4874).
53
►
54
54 Total (add lines 48 through 53). Enter here and on line 19
Part V Other Taxes
55 Tax from recomputing prior-year investment credit (attach Form 4255)
55
56
56
Minimum tax. Check here, and attach Form 4625.
57 Tax on premature distributions from attached Form 5329, Part V
57
58 Self-employment tax (attach Schedule SE)
58
280
59 Social security tax on tip income not reported to employer (attach Form 4137)
59
60 Uncollected employee social security tax on tips (from Forms W-2)
60
61 Excess contribution tax from attached Form 5329, Part IV
61
62 Total (add lines 55 through 61). Enter here and on line 21
Part VI Other Payments
63 Excess FICA, RRTA, or FICA/RRTA tax withheld (two or more employers-see page 13 of Instructions)
64 Credit for Federal tax on special fuels, nonhighway gasoline and lubricating oil (attach Form 4136)
65 Credit from a Regulated Investment Company (attach Form 2439)
66 Total (add lines 63 through 65). Enter here and on line 23e
62 280

63
64
65
66
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 6
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1976-0-218-052
216-052-2
==End of OCR for page 6==

Schedules A&B-Itemized Deductions AND
(Form 1040)
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Name(s) as shown on Form 1040

Dividend and Interest Income.
Attach to Form 1040. See Instructions for Schedules A and B (Form 1040).
SP. Ruby
Schedule A-Itemized Deductions (Schedule B on back)
Medical and Dental Expenses (not compensated by insurance
or otherwise) (See page 13 of Instructions.)
1 One half (but not more than $150) of in-
surance premiums for medical care. (Be
sure to include in line 10 below)
2 Medicine and drugs
3 Enter 1% of line 15c, Form 1040.
4 Subtract line 3 from line 2. Enter differ-
ence (if less than zero, enter zero)
5 Enter balance of insurance premiums for
medical care not entered on line 1
6 Enter other medical and dental expenses:
a Doctors, dentists, nurses, etc.
b Hospitals
c Other (itemize--include hearing aids,
dentures, eyeglasses, transportation,
etc.)
Sett
7 Total (add lines 4 through 6c)
8 Enter 3% of line 15c, Form 1040
9 Subtract line 8 from line 7 (if less than
zero, enter zero)
10 Total (add lines 1 and 9). Enter here and
on line 34
Taxes (See page 13 of Instructions.)
11 State and local income
12 Real estate
4
13 State and local gasoline (see gas tax tables)
14 General sales (see sales tax tables)
15 Personal property
16 Other (itemize) ▷
SCH
17 Total (add lines 11 through 16). Enter
here and on line 35
1941
Contributions (See page 15 of Instructions for examples.)
21 a Cash contributions for which you have
receipts, cancelled checks or other
written evidence
b Other cash contributions. List donees
and amounts. ►
SCH
22 Other than cash (see page 15 of instruc-
tions for required statement)
23 Carryover from prior years
24 Total contributions (add lines 21a through 100
23). Enter here and on line 37
Casualty or Theft Loss(es) (See page 15 of Instructions.)
Note: If you had more than one loss, omit lines 25 through 28
and see page 15 of Instructions for guidance.
25 Loss before insurance reimbursement
26 Insurance reimbursement.
27 Subtract line 26 from line 25. Enter dif-
ference (if less than zero, enter zero)
-
28 Enter $100 or amount on line 27, which-
ever is smaller
29 Casualty or theft loss (subtract line 28
from line 27). Enter here and on line 38
Miscellaneous Deductions (See page 15 of Instructions.)
30 Alimony paid
31 Union dues
32 Other (itemize) ►
A
1128
A
Interest Expense (See page 14 of Instructions.)
18 Home mortgage
19 Other (itemize) ▷
Sett
20 Total (add lines 18 and 19). Enter here
and on line 36.
2517
A
33 Total (add lines 30 through 32). Enter
here and on line 39
A
Summary of Itemized Deductions
34 Total medical and dental-line 10.
35 Total taxes-line 17.
36 Total interest-line 20
37 Total contributions-line 24
38 Casualty or theft loss(es)-line 29
39 Total miscellaneous-line 33
40 Total deductions (add lines 34 through
39). Enter here and on Form 1040, line
44
1941
1128
2517
100

5686
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 7
218-054-1
==End of OCR for page 7==

Schedules A&B (Form 1040) 1976
Schedule B-Dividend and Interest Income
Name(s) as shown on Form 1040 (Do not enter name and social security number if shown on other side)
Partil
Stp Ruby
Dividend Income
Note: If gross dividends (including capital gain distributions) and
other distributions on stock are $400 or less, do not complete this
part. But enter gross dividends less the sum of capital gain dis-
tributions and non-taxable distributions, if any, on Form 1040,
line 10a (see note below).
1 Gross dividends (including capital gain distributions) and other
distributions on stock. (List payers and amounts)
Partell Interest Income
Page 2
"Your social security number
32212:7997
Note: If interest is $400 or less, do not complete this part. But
enter amount of interest received on Form 1040, line 11.
7 Interest includes earnings from savings and loan associations,
mutual savings banks, cooperative banks, and credit unions
as well as interest on bank deposits, bonds, tax refunds, etc.
Interest also includes original issue discount on bonds and
other evidences of indebtedness (see page 16 of Instructions).
(List payers and amounts)
NOTE ON WOODLEY
BISTRO
WAL
4959
12.
TRANSWORLD
17
WORLD
191
12
2 Total of line 1
3 Capital gain distributions (see page 16 of
Instructions. Enter here and on Schedule D,
line 7). See note below
4 Nontaxable distribu-
tions (see page 16 of
Instructions).
5 Total (add lines 3 and 4)
6 Dividends before exclusion (subtract line
5 from line 2). Enter here and on Form
1040, line 10a
8 Total interest income. Enter here and on
Form 1040, line 11
5195
Note: If you received capital gain distributions and do not need Schedule D to report any other gains or losses or to compute
the alternative tax, do not file that schedule. Instead, enter 50 percent of capital gain distributions on Form 1040,
line 30b.
Part III Foreign Accounts and Foreign Trusts
1 Did you, at any time during the taxable year, have any interest in or signature or other authority over a bank,
securities, or other financial account in a foreign country (except in a U.S. military banking facility operated by a
U.S. financial institution)?
Yes No
If "Yes," attach Form 4683 (For definitions, see Form 4683.)
2 Were you the grantor of, or transferor to, a foreign trust during any taxable year, which foreign trust was in
being during the current taxable year, whether or not you have any beneficial interest in such trust?
Yes No
If "Yes," attach Form 4683 (For definitions, see Form 4683.)
B
NW 88326 Docld: 32245535 Page 8
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1976-0-218-054
218-054-1
==End of OCR for page 8==

SCHEDULE C Profit or (Loss) From Business or Profession
(Form 1040)
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Name of proprietor

Partnerships, Joint Ventures, etc., Must File Form 1065.
Attach to Form 1040. See Instructions for Schedule C (Form 1040).
S&P Ruby
1976
Social security number
322127997
A Principal business activity (see Schedule C Instructions) SERVICE ; product ▷ SNACK BAR
B Business name
WOODLEY BISTRO COFFEE SHOP Employer identification number ► 95-2651578
D Business address (number and street) 1605 VENTURA, BLUD
City, State and ZIP code.
CA 91316
Encino
C
Yes No
E Indicate method of accounting: (1) ☐ Cash (2) ☑ Accrual (3) Other
F Were you required to file Form W-3 or Form 1096 for 1978 (see Schedule C Instructions)?
If "Yes," where filed
G Was an Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return, Form 941, filed for this business for any quarter in 1976?. ☑ YES ☐ NO
H Method of inventory valuation COST Was there any substantial change in
the manner of determining quantities, costs, or valuations between the opening and closing inventories? (If "Yes," attach explanation.) ◄
Balance▷
1 Gross receipts or sales $..
Less: returns and allowances $....
1
2 Less: Cost of goods sold and/or operations (Schedule C-1, line 8).
2
Income
3 Gross profit .
3
4 Other income (attach schedule)
4
5 Total income (add lines 3 and 4)
5
6 Depreciation (explain in Schedule C-3)
6
7 Taxes on business and business property (explain in Schedule C-2)
7
8 Rent on business property
8
Deductions

9 Repairs (explain in Schedule C-2)
9
10 Salaries and wages not included on line 3, Schedule C-1 (exclude any paid to yourself)
10
11 Insurance
11
12 Legal and professional fees
12
13 Commissions
13
14 Amortization (attach statement)
14
15(a) Pension and profit-sharing plans (see Schedule C Instructions)
15(a)
(b) Employee benefit programs (see Schedule C Instructions)
(b)
16 Interest on business indebtedness
16
17 Bad debts arising from sales or services
17
18 Depletion.
18
19 Other business expenses (specify):
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k) Total other business expenses (add lines 19(a) through 19(j))
20 Total deductions (add lines 6 through 19(k))
20
21 Net profit or (loss) (subtract line 20 from line 5). Enter here and on Form 1040, line 29. ALSO
enter on Schedule SE, line 5(a).
21
3546
SCHEDULE C-1.- Cost of Goods Sold and/or Operations (See Schedule C Instructions for Line 2)
1 Inventory at beginning of year (if different from last year's closing inventory, attach explanation)
1
2 Purchases $...................Less: cost of items withdrawn for personal use $.
Balance
2
3 Cost of labor (do not include salary paid to yourself)
3
4 Materials and supplies
4
5 Other costs (attach schedule)
5
6 Total of lines 1 through 5
6
7 Less: Inventory at end of year
:
7
8 Cost of goods sold and/or operations. Enter here and on line 2 above
8
Did you claim a deduction for expenses of an office in your home?
Yes
No
16-82517-1
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 9
==End of OCR for page 9==

Schedule C (Form