Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10453
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN
Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10453

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PARYOLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 08/29/77
PAGES: 51
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
JOHNSON, LILLIAN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :
Box 2.
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 2

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel Dem
DATE: December 19, 1977
RE: Lillian Johnson

This memorandum is to inform you that Lillian
Johnson is on administrative leave from December 9, 1977
until January 9, 1978. She should continue on the pay-
roll for that period of time plus any additional vacation
that she has not yet taken.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,
please contact me.
3 days annual leave

Terminate January 12. 1978
Howarth
ICM:j1

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 3

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:
father	nephew	brother-in-law
mother	niece	sister-in-law
son	husband	stepfather
daughter	wife	stepmother
brother	father-in-law	stepbrother
sister	mother-in-law	stepsister
uncle	sor-in-law	half-brother
aunt	daughter-in-law	half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 4
Signature of Employee 8/31/77
Date
7

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes.
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515. on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Lillian B. Johnson 8/29/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

577 56 7465 ☑ Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)
Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary $13,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or Professional.
465
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.
of 95th
Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number If applicable, Level. Step_______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date August 31 1977
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman (Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.
Office of Finance use only: APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office Code...	F.O. 8/31
Monthly Annuity $ .00
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 5

RESUME ROUTING FORM Johnson Lillian
Secretarial $13,500

Received 8-10-77 Logged by nps
☐ Congressional ☑ Self ☐ Other
Referral
Comments on Referral
Abstracted by nps Date 8-10-77
Acknowledged by Date
Staff Component Date
Review by
Recommended ☐ File ☐ Interview ☐ Hold ☐ Refer
Action:
REQUEST FOR Interviewer Hutton/ Matthews Suggested date
APPOINTMENT Klein Suggested time

Confirmed Confirmed by
date time
REQUEST FOR
REFERENCES ☐ Hold for Date
Notified

INSTRUCTIONS Hired as of 8-29-77 JFK/ Task
FINAL
INTERVIEW By Suggested date
REQUEST Suggested time

Confirmed Confirmed by
Date time

LETTER OF Acceptance/Date of employment
NOTIFICATION by Rejection

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 6

RESUME

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
(301) 772-3341(H)
(202) 755-6808(0)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia
5/77 - Present Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

12/76 - 2/77 1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee
2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.
Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator

9/76 - 11/76 Congressional Budget Office
2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. Secretary

7/76 - 9/76 Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary

8/74 - 9/75 Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary

11/73 - 8/74 Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W.
Secretary

5/13 - 6/14 Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "C"
Streets, S.E. Secretary

1/73 - 8/73 Model Inner Cities Community Organization
9th & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretary

3/70 - 3/71 American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

2/68 - 1/70 Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

5/67 - 1/68 Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

5/66 - 5/67 Georgetown University, 37th & "0" Streets, N.W.
Clerk-typist

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 7

-2- Resume - Lillian B. Johnson Cont'd

Education:
1/72 - 7/47 Strayer College, 13th & "G" Streets, N.W.
Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary

9/63 - 6/64 Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue,
N.W. Secretarial Course

9/59 - 6/62 Graduate of Dunbar High School, 1st & "N"
Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses

Skills: Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. Typist 75 - 80

Personal: Seeking opportunity for career professional position
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasionall
Divorced

One daughter age 8 years.

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 8

1977. Inaugural Committe

February 7, 1977

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express
their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in
support of the 1977 Inauguration.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in
history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the world the commit-
ment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forward this letter to you as a member of
the Inaugural Security and Credential Committee. You displayed the high-
est degree of professionalism and dedication in many important tasks.

You were always willing and ready to work long hours, above and beyond
the normal work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything
asked of you.

Throughout the planning and implementation period, you were faced with
an everchanging list of requirements. Your dedication to duty, under-
standing of the difficulties faced by the Inaugural Committee, and
cooperative attitude are indicative of a true professional. Your over-
all manner of performance was truly outstanding.

If we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal
of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing only
words, we say again, thank you for all the service given so unselfishly.

Sincerely,
Frank Wilson, Director
Security & Credentials Committee

Donald Brock, Deputy Chief
In Charge of Internal Security

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 9

ISOLINAUGURATION OF
DENT AND VICE PRESIDE

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served with distinction on behalf of the
Armed Forces of the United States
at the Inauguration of

Jimmy Carter

on the twentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seventy-seven
in Washington, District of Columbia

Bardy R. Trona Kiki Leju K
Bardyl R. Tirana Vicki Rogers Robert G. Verks
Co-Chairpersons
Major General USA
Chairman

1977 Inaugural Committee
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 10

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 11
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and
untiring work on the 1977 inauguration.
The inaugural program was a great suc-
cess, open to all of our citizens. This
would not have been possible without the
unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long
hours freely given by volunteers such
as you.

You have helped to set an example of what
we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.
Many thanks.

Sincerely,
Jimmy Carter
Miss Lillian Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a
great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great
example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.

Jimmy Carter

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 12

Life Experience: Inauguration of President and Vice President
of the United States, 1977 Presidential
Inaugural Committee, Washington, D.C.

Position Descriptors

Competency Statement

As Site Coordinator &
Administrative Assistant
of the Inaugural Committee's
Security & Credential division,
I have:

A. Acquired knowledge as to how
legislative priorities are set

B. Held high level administrative
responsibility in operating the
office

C. Supervised productivity, flow of
work and overall operations of
our office with top United States
Secret Service officials and
congressional members.

D. Through the concept of creative
office leadership I have assisted
in planning, organizing and con-
trolling the operations of presi-
dential security

E. Utilize techniques to help main-
tain good employee relations
through effective supervision,
delegation, evaluating, training,
and thorough communications with
USSS.

F. Arranged and made contacts with
top USSS agents, presidential
advance team, and congressional
members for indepth security
conferences.
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 13

AMENDMENT TO
PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS STATEMENT
IMPORTANT: Read these instructions carefully before completing this form.

OMB
APPROVED 50-R0048
This form may be used to update your Personal Qualifications Statement provided you have had no more than three additional positions since the statement being
updated was completed. Agencies are required to accept a previously completed Personal Qualifications Statement as current when this form is attached. Before
completing this form, review carefully your answers to all items on the statement being updated. Use typewriter if available. Otherwise write or print legibly in
dark ink.

1. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any) ☐ MR. ☐ MISS MRS. 2. DATE OF THIS STATEMENT 3. BIRTH DATE (month, day, year)
AND ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, and ZIP Code) May 17, 1977 December 6, 1943

JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens. 5. REASON FOR SUBMISSION (Check One)
7516.Forest. Road
Hyattsville, Maryland 20875 To update Personal Qualifications Statement in my Official Personal Folder
To update Personal Qualifications Statement on file with you
4. KIND OF POSITION YOU ARE FILING FOR (Or title and number of announcement) To update attached Personal Qualifications Statement
Security Assistant 15-21 (77)A As requested

6. LOWEST PAY OR GRADE YOU WILL ACCEPT
S PAY per or GRADE 7

7. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of unemployment in separate blocks in order)
May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? Yes ☐ No (A "No" will not affect your
consideration for employment opportunities.)
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year) EXACT TITLE OF POSITION IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR
FROM May 9, 1977 TO PRESENT TIME Clerk-typist MILITARY GRADE 5

SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
STARTING $ 179. PER Week PER WEEK CITY: Washington, EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accounting, insur-
ance, etc.)
FINAL $ PER 40 STATE: D.C. 0 Housing & Urban Developm
NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD)
Charles Field
Washington, D.C. 20410
AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN
REASON FOR WANTING TO LEAVE Seeking position involving more responsibility and opportunity
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS Prepare in final form a variety of materials
including correspondence, staff studies, technical papers, memoranda and issue papers
which include the use of terminology that is highly specialized. Responsible for
maintenance of subject matter files for the staff. (Even though this job description
does not indicate), I have taken dictation and transcribed it for the Special
Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Housing and Urban Development. Perform all
secretarial duties.

EXACT TITLE OF POSITION FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
PROM TO NUMBER AND KIND OF IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN
OR MILITARY GRADE
SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED
STARTING S PER PER WEEK CITY: KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
(manufacturing, accounting,
FINAL $ PER STATE: insurance, etc.)
NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN
REASON FOR LEAVING
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)

Standard Form 172, January 1972
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
U.S. Civil Service Commission
172-102

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 14

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year) EXACT TITLE OF POSITION IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR
FROM TO MILITARY GRADE
NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT
STARTING S PER EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accounting, insur-
PER WEEK CITY: ance, etc.)
FINAL $ PER
STATE:
NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)

AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN
REASON FOR LEAVING
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)
8. Space for explaining other changes or additions to the qualifications statement being updated. If any answer to an item on the qualifications statement being
updated is incorrect or incomplete as of the date of this amendment, identify the item by number and explain. (Check one) ☐ Other changes or additions
listed below ☐ No other changes or additions.
ITEM
NO. If more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, position (or title and number
of announcement) filing for, and date of the qualifications statement being updated. Attach all sheets to this form.

CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sign in ink)
I CERTIFY that the statements made by me on this form update my Personal Qualifica-
tions Statement completed 5/17/77 (month, year) and are true, complete, and Lillie B. John
correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith. FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM IS PUNISHABLE BY LAW

GPO: 1973 0 - 453-449
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 15

B. Announcement No.
A. Kind of position (job) you are filing for (or title of
Administrative Asst.,

C. Options for which you wish to be considered (if listed in announcement)

Legislative Aide
D. Primary place(s) you wish to be employed
Washington, D.C., Metropolitan area

2. Home phone (including Area Code) 3. Office phone (including Area Code)
772-3341 (301)
775-5860

4. Name (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any) Mr. Miss Ma.
and Address (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code)

JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens
7516 Forest Road
Hyattsville, Maryland 20875

5. Legal or voting residence (State)
District of Columbia

6. Height without shoes 7. Weight
5 Feet 7 Laches 135 lbs

8. Birthplace (City and State, or foreign country)
District of Columbia

9. Birth date (Month, day, year) 10. Social Security Account Number
12/6/43
577 56 7465
11. If you have ever been employed by the Federal Government as a civilian, give your
last classification series, grade, and job title.
GS-318-5 Clerk-typist

Dates of service in that grade
From
May 9, 1977 To
Present time

12. If you are currendy on a list of eligibles for appointment to a Federal position, give
the name of the announcement, the name of the office raaintaining the list, the date
on your notice of rating, and your rating.
Stenographer and Typist
United States Civil Service Commission
Federal Register
April 25, 1977 Typist 4 Steno 5

13. Lowest pay or grade you will accept 14. When will you be
Pay GRADE uppilable?
5
per yr.
OR
notification

YES NO 16. Where will you accept a job? YES NO 17. Will you accept less than full tin
(Acceptance or refusal of 1 month or less? Washington, D.C. (Less than 40 beurs per week) Y
temporary employment will
to 4 months?
Any place in the United States.
NO SOM
affect your consideratiss
4 to 12 months? Outside of the United States. 18. Are you willing to travel? (Cb
for other appointments.)
Only in (sprs): metro area
X

19. VETERAN PREFERENCE. Anrower all parts. If a part does not apply to you, answer "No."

A. Have you ever served on active duty in the United States military service? (Exclude tours of active duty for training as a reservist or Guardmon.)
B. Have you ever been discharged from the armed services under other than honorable conditions? (You may omit any such discharge charged
to honorable by a Discharge Review Board or similar authority.)...
If "Yes," give details in Item 37.

C. Do you claim 5-point preference based on active duty in the armed forces?.
If "Ya." you will be required to furnish records to support your claim at the time you are appointed.

D. Do you claim 10-point preference?.
If "Ya," check type of preference claimed and complete and attach Standard Form 13. "Claim for 10-point Veteran Preference," together with the proof
in that form
TYPE: Compensable disability Wife Widow

E. List Dates, Branch, and Serial or Service Number of All Active Service (Enter "N/A" if not applicable)
To Branch of Service Serial of Service Num
From
N/A

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK
FOR USE OF EXAMINING OFFICE ONLY
Entered Register:
Appor. Material Submitted
Nonappor. Returned
Notations:
Form Reviewed:
Form Approved:
Option Grade Earned Preference Au
Rating Ratin
5 points
(Tent.)
10 Points
Comp. Dis
Other
10 Points
Disal.
Being
Investi-
gated
Initials and Date
THIS SPACE FOR USE OF APPOINTING OFFICER
Preference has been verified through proof that the ser
under honorable conditions, and other proof as required.

3-Pt. 10-Pt. Comp. Disab. 10-Pt.

Signature and Title

Agency
Date
Refer for medical action
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Page 1 Standard Form 171
May. 1975 U.S. Civil Service C
171-105

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 16

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifcations, and record of employment?. Yes No
(A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Exact title of position Security-Credls. If Federal service, civilian or military
Dates of employment (ssousb, year) Site Coordinator/Secretary grade
1
From 12/30/76 TO PRESENT TIME
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $150.00 per wik per week City. Washington supervised several-100(manufacturing, accounting, inπσακα,
1977 Inaugural Comte
Present $ same per 50 State: volunteers
D.C.
Name of immediate supervisor
Frank Wilson, Director Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if knoun)
1977 Inaugural Committee, 2nd & "D" Streets, S.
Washington, D.C. 20024
Area Code and phone No. if known 202/472-4350
Reason for wanting to leave Job is terminating on 1/31/77
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Instructing several sub-committees within the
Inaugural Committee on procedure and preparation of security clearance forms.
Processing and preparing S.C. forms for security pick-up. Communication by phone
on a very large scale with Secret Service, White House and many other agencies for
Inauguration. Worked with the director preparing and designing security credentials.
Sat-in on meetings Security & Press Personnel, took dictation and kept minutes.
Operated the Command Post at Visitors Center. Typed letter, memorandums, etc.,
Presently working on After Action Report. Served as central For agency use (still codes, etc.)
point of information concerning activities of the office.
2
Dates of employment (month, year)
From 9/76 To 11/76
Exact title of position
Secretary/Personnel Asst. If Federal service, civilian or military
Avg. hrs. Place of employment grade
Salary or earnings
Startiny $ 10,096. per yr. per week City: Washington supervised Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
40 D.C. none Federal (manufacturing, accounting, insurNCE,
Final $ same per State: etc.)
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if kreum)
Congressional Budget Office
Carl McCarden/Alicia McPhee
2nd & "D" Streets, S.W.
Area Code and phone No. if known 202/225-6666
Reason for leaving Temporary position
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishaents Secretary in Budget Analysis Division, Human Resourc
and Personnel Office. Worked with several Analyst. Typed up proposals, budget
reports, general correspondence and telephone communications. Operated the
Vydec Computer in all divisions.

Exact title of position For agency use (shill codes, etc.)
Dates of employment (sonth, year) Secretary/Legal Asst.
From 7/76 To 9/76 If Federal service, civilian or military
3
grade Temporary Agency
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees
Starting $ 4.75 per hr.
Kind of business or organization
(manufacturing, counting, insursace,
180. Washington supervised none etc.)
Final $ same per State: D.C. secretarial agency

Name of immediate superviser Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if noon)

Ms. Susan Heuser Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
1120 -19th Street, N.W.
Ares Code and phone No. if known
Reason for leaving Temporary placement agency.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked on several legal assignments on short-term.
Secretary to attorneys. Performed general secretarial duties, typing drafts,
briefs, other correspondence, and telephone communication.

Page 2 For agency use (shill codes, etc.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS
SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 17

20. EXPERIENCE (Stateuch your FELSENT position and work base count for periods of unement in uparate blocks in order.)
May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifcations, and record of employment?.. Yes No
(A "No" urllect ajut your cassion for puntos caps for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Exact title of position Legal Secretary If Federal service, civilian or my
Dates of employment (acid, par)
4 From 8/74 TO PRESENT TIME
9/75 grade
Salary or earnings
Sterting $ 10,500 per Yr. 0 Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organizztica
per Week City: Washington supervised 0 manufacturing, accounting, insKTARI,
Present $ same per 37- State: D.C. tc.) Law Firm
Name of immediate supervisor
JoAnna McAtee Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
Ares Code and phone No. of krown
1815 "H" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Reason for wanting to leave laid off
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Legal Secretary to several attorneys in the firm,
in areas of litigation, real estate, tax, labor, Federal Communications-took
dictation, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, typed briefs',
proposals, etc. Telephone communications with clients and other firms, etc.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.) 1/72-6/74
(THE NEXT THREE JOBS LISTED BELOW WERE COURSE RELATED WHILE ATTENDING STRAYER COLLEGE)
Dates of employment (math, par)
5 From 11/73 Το 8/74 If Federal service, civilian or military
Exact title of position
Secretary grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting & 4.50 per hr. per week City: Washington tons supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurana,
20 State: D.C. 0 Secretarial Service
Final S per etc.)
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (frm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if knows)
Temporaries, Inc., 1015 -18th Street, N.W.
Clara, Bob
Washington, D.C.
Ares Code and phone No. & known
Reason for leaving temporary job
Descripion of dati, lite, and accomplishments Gained experienced in working with many law firms
in the area as Legal, Executive, Statistical and Technical Secretary on short-term
assignments.

Exact title of position For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
Dates of employment (mesh, year) Transcriber
Το 6/73
From 4/73 If Federal service, civilian or military
grade
Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organizacion
per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, inturasa,
Starting $ 3.50
State: D.C. 0 Reporting Agency
Firal $
per
Name of employes (frm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, is known)
Domis Hoover
Hoover Reporting Agency
Ares Code and phone No. if known
3rd & Mass. Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C.
Reasen for leaving Course related for experience mostly.
Transcriber of reporters notes from courtroom
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments
bearings.
Salary or earnings
pher
Page 2 For agency use (shill codes, we.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE SLOONS USE STANDARD FOAM 171-A شتند
SEE INSTRUCTION
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 18

7.
May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?..
"NO" wall mata pour castration for empiens opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
Dates of employment (x, y)
Student reporter grade
From 9/73 TO PRESENT TIME

Salary or earnings Avg. bra. Flace of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organizacion
per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurana,
15 State: D.C. 0 Reporting Agency
Starting 3 0 per tc.)

Present 3 per
Name of immediate supervisor
Bernie Richards Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if kroum)

BGH Reporting Agency
Ares Code and phone No. if known
24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Reason for wanting to leave Course related - for experience only.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments
Sat-in on public hearings and took minutes of hearings and observed courtroom
procedures. Transcribed notes.
8
Dates of employment (month, year)
From 5/13/74
TO 6/14/74
Salary of earnings
Starting $ 4.50
Final same
per
hr.
per
Name of immediate supervisor
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
Exact title of position
If Federal service, civilian or military
Legal Secretary grade

Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
per week City Washington, supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insuraka,
etc.)
Congressional Office
37- State: D.C. 0

Name of employer (frm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if troum)
Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman
Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E.
Marilyn Shapiro
Ares Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving Temporary position
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishment Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres.
Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones,
took dictation and transcribed.

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position
Prom 3/70
Το 3/71 Secretary
9
Salary of careings
Avg. hrs. Flace of