180-10144-10133 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Box 29
Folder 50

Palmer
8/2/78

SECRET
Victor Paneque
1 p.kg... loose documents
1 p.kg DCD documents
1 Volume CI/OA documents
1 Volume DDO documents.

D00 Volume
0-24 October 1960.
Personality File Request 11111456
Victor Paneque -201-286 382
Reportedly an agent of DIER.

5. Undated document giving Paneque background political activity all 1960 information.
1. On arrival in U.S., stayed with Orlando Bosch, suspected Casto agent.
2. Associated with leader of MRR "Camilo Cienfueges" Carlos Rodriguez Castro, Suspected Casto plant in U.S
3. Reportedly spent 2 hrs with Raul Castro before defecting

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
4. Major Sanjenis, former Chief G-2, says Paneque of GOC agent.
5. Organization Autentica reporting to State Dept. that Paneque is a Castro plant.
6. 00-A 3168667 reports Paneque one of two DIER plants at Uni of Havana & studente planning to assassinate him... 0003442
7. Cuban businessman sarp Paneque is G.-2 plant.
8. CIA reported D. FBI that Subject has been reported A4-2.

10144-10133

Palmer
8/2/28
Paneque

SECRET
April 29, 1959 Classified message to Director from
Havana says Raul Castro has begun a major
purge of Cuban Armed Forces. Among those
X to be eliminated are Victor Paneque, aka "Diego"

16 Oct. 1960 11111457
Conversation with major Victor M. Paneque (Comandante: Diego, 6. October at 200).

When Paneque arrived in miami, he got together with Alianza de Liberacion through Dr. Luis Conte Aguero. He could not get immediate help from this group, so resigned. Celso said he had tried to get help from U.S. gout but ansuccesful.
Paneque is convinced that the only thing needed to overthrow Castro in armor & supplies. Has a plane which he intends & fly into Cuba with Cargo of arms.
Author of memo recomments that CIA Offer assistance & Paneque independent of all other organizations as he seems to be capable of becoming an emportant factor in the future 8003443

Nov. 2,1960 Cable to Direct from mase
* Paneque & 8 men leaving for Cuba neglht of i Nov
#6 on 40. foot yacht, Trudy Lou. Craft purchased by Orlando Bosch.

Palmer
8/2/78
Paneque

DIER - Departamento Investigativo
Del Ejercito Revolucionario

SECRET
14 Dec 1960
Cable to Director from Havaia IN 16758
Paneque reportedly under arrest at Cabana prison or his wife at Womensprison, on charger of aiding Excambray fighters

Jan 13, 1961 11111458
Cable to Bell from Guatemala lity IN 1688
Alexander Rourke gives information that haur Diorini & Orlando Bosch represent Paneque in Cuba
Orlando Bosch recruiting & equiping force for assault on Cuba 18 Jou. Receiving financial aid from Anti Communist International Association of nge

14 March 1962
Dispatch. D. Chief, Your Force to from COS/MWAVE
Paneque organized a Hunger Shike by luban
Exules 1. held a rally 13 March 1962. Purpose was
to show JDK that Cubans are willing to die in efile if their reght to defend Cuba from
Communism is negated. motto of strike is "Hunger or War"
5003444
PRQ part 1 - Julij 4,1964
Aliases: Diego Rene Récardo (Clandestine Activity)

Palmer
8/2/78
Paneque

SECRET
Request for Information of Review. "$ nov. 1964
POA. granted 13 nov 1964

8 Dec 1964 11111459
Report of Covert Assessment
from Assessment & Evaluation Staff, medical Staff
Paneque one of 6 members of the "radop traineer (radio operators :) given psychological Assessments in Aug 1964, Paneque is oldest, (DOB 18 Sept 1920) and least intelligent, моот experienced of the group. Likely he would try to dominate the group because of his fast experience. His shortcomings seem to out weigh his assets

17 nov 1964 Classified Message 1622582
Paneque assigried AMRUG-5].

19 Dec. 1964
Memorandum of Fral Commitment
Paneque engaged under oral Contract on, De 1964.
To receive $ 275. 28. per month following Completion of satisfactory Resince Will receive raise of $50 per month on completion of training & $50 raise upon infiltration
(Possibly an infiltration of Oriente Provenice) see item

0503445

Palmer
8/2/78
Pangino

SECRET
21 Oct 1965
Dispatch from CoS/JMWAVE
Paneque terminated us of 31 Oct 1965. Сгент Service record. recommends him for re-use, ou basis of his knowledge of intered Contacte in Norttiern Oriente.

15 Sept 1977. Managua # 095686
:: -16-22-
Paneque participated in Cuban spile activities in New York area in 1962 and later registered in ISR & Dept of Army in August 1962 (Dropped without prejudice 18 Nov 1963.) θω 1964 Paneque was member of me
X infiltration team. Recruted by miami station as radio operator / infiltree and favorably swirled on 5 August 1964. POA granted
13. nov 1964. Paid #275 monthly beginning 1 Sep 1964. Trained by Cuban agente in miami but never used operationally. Amicabily terminatio Det 1965 & recommended for re-use. Reported in 1969 as Conducting clandestine trips meide Cuba on behalf of Junta militar de Cuba

Third agency deletion - sealed envelopes
8-FBI 1 Dept of Army.

0003446

Palmer 8/2/78

SECRET
Volume CI/OA - no notes necessary.
Victor Manuel Paneque Batista - C-286 3.8.2

Deletions 1 sealed envelope.
FBI report 3 Nov 1960 and Office of Security
polygraph Interview

Victor Paneque
DCD Documents
11111401

-no-notes

Loose Documents - Victor Paveque
17. Jeb. 1972

Subject: Identification of pee, DSE, use . members, etc. page 3 - Item 9: Information acquired through interrogation of CC-4993, Jacinto BAEZ. Jaliano, a Cuban refugee & former resident Rogla, Havana

Province, who left Cuba 22 Nov 1971. Subsource worked for Superphochates Enterprise from 1950-1968

Victor Manuel Paneque employed until 1968 as laboratory Chief of Superphosphates, is a member of the PCC militia, & Defence Committee (CDR) He is an agronomist former director of School of Agronomy, Havana University. He is described as
Caucasion, 5'2" tall, weight about 165 lbs, born 1927-32, black hair, dark-Colored eyes...
0003447
(note) Victor Paneque Batista is 5'6" brown hair, blue eyes, born 1920
