180-10143-10062 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET Noserko II 5-26 1

talled to hay to bkid manch
ptanich
FBJ Morris Taylor - Ret taped
Donald Walsh - Ret
James Wooton
FBJ Ellized Turner 1969- tape

Jolie - end A 1967- tape

March 1964 FBJ kype on Orwald
signed transcript

Folked & John Banon - Tognde KCB
Sent use agency approval

1960 - in libra month + a half

in Cuba - seaunty offer - watch poup 7

Every Pay has university in cepitel

1959-Oct- Senior Cave officer
Rastrosin - still in the wants to defect

SECRET
10143-10062

SECRET cover every tourist 2
had nothing on LHO

spot interesting tourist (of American)
1) Intelligence Commit
2) fed gov worker
2) specialist on Russia Rus, teaching
3) Students studying Russia
use relation
4) am w/ Roots in Russia - for leverage
5) walch groups for suspicious prijate
- mit be intelligence

6) Big Corporation- multon corporations-
LHO not interesting
furtive mil equipmet

Rithy in FCD an chures
11
"Anted
I
not any position - place of work

45 See
wuth highest to stay in Sov. Union by LHO
See Intourist docant

showed material to chut of Section -
wert Chut Dept-Peters - Reported to
him- the's nothing doesn't think it
went ay higher
lust tells Intourist & turn down LHO

-not interesting.
by on 2 better decision & wrists were cut
newspaper antiles for US on LHO defectien

We go N- would have screwed
the

SECRET

ait wits
SECRET 3
Botkin hosp. dake there

in hosp - kill half of not allowed to sty

send lets have psych check him - given order to
Rus - 2 psych

use SOP 9 KGB to get psych

Both sand mentally unstable

N saw reports
Jugs 1/2 each
intourist never make statet abot
being abnormal until her

show on chef I felt the deputy
if het unfot bart & for goo - teen I

Let LAN Sky - warning & hot dato fors 05
KGB will to save w/ LHO of came out
mentally stable

KGB never spoke to hir- Sou kd cin talk
to LHO

R.C. couldn 4 tell N4 LHO said he was a marine

SECRET

SECRET 4
if LHO Sand-2 Infn-KGB would
go to him
Nis feer has ordered to go to KGB Gas
translate for Powers

SCD - darka Dueteorite
50% of puple at powers trial were KGB
mar from sheet count go to
Powers trial
may offers in SCD then th (4s before
shut down

leep uto-no bend publicity
given when pension - 700 Rubles
pension than Red Gress
= 70 Palles
تا
the deega Bade-pmost popere Misht
SCD did not decide vs. Moxow
le de In Minsk

ay defecter
only Marcar con recrut. a freerper
In approach

hand 7 457 prepare pages for Musk
SECRET

Musk Most SEC 5
• Peptor ages checking work
② comesponda pored & Red + Copy P.K.
13
③ wanted 1 telephore he had caphone-m
& periodical Surveile sex - KGB aperts Pillow hin
Cigartes in place of work & Living
⑤ breviation

Kraw they did it seem like in 1963..
typed up - 10 See it
written by Krupnov

Dec 1959 - to din Rept.

1962 - Bach do 7th Dept
1963 - chef 1 section resphate for auto tourist
Alterary call for FCD
" shows cable fon fron fles Ath
sup to rested arbory & cupplied fu Visa
Jose to del 1 Dept-

Alterept this N supervises work on
-
Chericas - Cines do N. 
SECRET office

Allex & N alone in office
SECRET 6
nut
N didn't for 10 go got LHO file-header, so was
go to chef Dept
Moscow doesn't have to be astired of manager
not woud to send cable like this h Moscow
to to chef of Dept made decision
-1128 8. N. chief &
arevca Sector of 7th present
Chap 7 SCD calls 10 - castact Munk
tell the to bed whatever they have
fill the we send mi I plane
asth then if the had contact with A

fe
Falled beevend pople in Minsk

Sectio -fell Letosed files bo mil Plaxi
then whed y untact w/ LAO- Holl "no"
used passive- no contact of beervitset

with thew case - did have
file SECRET

talk to Minsk for 34 y min 7
SECRET
told no contact w/ itto

had file 1-1/2 he.

head of file is fast part
wont fuge by page

affe botry threw t - Platiné

load Sanny in fele, dove by Mask.....
one for 6 months
- one in obervation

Kei Sher- told Nibe went to Minsk
-
20 days after assass.
that three He worked - phed with
works of when tho worked
-LHo bad shot
Marina's uncle - bean & Remaler ay statement hy
uncle to LHO

met w/ Epstein Elton - taped conver of 4 hrs.
ally the come out on tape

SECRET

SECRET 8

3/2 hrs. on thider of KGB
30 min. about LHO
1962- Pete Rragly
George

1964 - Barley
George
Nick
In Germany Murphy-CSB DIN - Couple of Days

Felt in Us - Brigly FBI Taylor
Nick Poptarich.
John Walth
Murphy
Genge

1967 Sothe Tom
Brown 1978 FFT - Palemerkee

1975 CF staff intants in wow is, Chemica
C by KGB
Khalan is
Huk Tovan
Mc Coy
Tilen Harvey
Vas Gemerkin
1969-71- Mr. Pepen

SECRET

Fit Lie Rectech test
1964
SECRET 9
sand OK-willy to falke it
Sand all CIA fuple table that - skyp seve
Subub of Work
Pulise
See Doctor-examination
Physical
noty to eat on dink

before be betech - "Sonetly funny" - Skhir
Mangly introd John I din - gore hin the
-
feeling of drable genes - plants
istle. Lack of fuellines

ital LHO leave Notes or go do anth Ron
while shut
wearing pants
Shoes
weth I know deferente what hur situation was. - Farmoill

he is forme CI feren
Ichn balls ha do Le ket pesm

John gars

SECRET

I chau & equipset 10
asked he questions
thuk in Russian
SECRET

Lie det tamen "dong his job"
Held queters fust & que seund time

Then John Returns shouts - you are Lying "
ne questions ON LHO

Angelton break deep enbank Philby

drop used in him-
halle drys
Sleyy

Report about Drup- see Hart
talk w/ psychodigst
tok h by Dreadfas (27- 25 featin
<tok
SECRET

Lampp 11
Pory
SECRET

Beofy ques 10-12 pace open to $14.
-f sign Hen festet charts.
nature of confesion
refuses to Sign

huger stuke -list 40lbs
started to Recon

no typed wols - 3/2 pas

ble - Nor 1967-1968 - evepoflay

Photographer memory

1966nt to! led to Ron the man
weang clothes
11:
Alyough man- to detect derter
make he angry

felt to activity
cach effert mission-plant
ans. questions withfully
English questions

imi of questions

after fast-told he was lying
SECRET

Blyn 12
SECRET

Sole 1988 fold bond
- present - Sobe & questioner
Several dap of question

dod thas I gustas I LHO
dond treber to questions

in ilk funt dog
come back next day- no hostility during
these fests

Helms
Cilby
never sew Angleton faci do face
- Can't judge someone on paper - must
L
i must see Eye-do-eye to make decision on Sinenie

SECRET

Nos III 13
SECRET

don't Lovely the detector bestel ca
not intresting - only hardfull of depitors

allowed to many for woman L bave thesion
of Sor defects baving pharse
SECRET
