Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 08/24/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10178
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 635-636

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : DIETRICH, DAN H JR
TO : CG, USA INTEL CMD
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 10/05/66
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

REQUESTED ACTION

CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS

LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION

RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

REQUEST FOR AND RESULT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW-88613 Docld:34530123 Page 1

REQUEST FOR AND RESULT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
TO: (Control Office) (AR 381-130)
MED THRU: (Requesting Agency)
CG, USA Intelligence Cmd CG, USAREC CO, AFEES
ATTN: ACofS, CONOPS ATTN: Security Officer 1515 Clay Street
PO Box 398 Fort Monroe, Va 23351 2/4 OCT Oakland, California
Fort Holabird, Md 21219
(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
requester)
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

CHIEF, USAPSG
ATTN: Adjudication Branch
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

DOSSIER NO. OPENING DATE
REMARKS
SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and 2. ALIAS(ES), KNOWN
middle names)
SCHEER, Robert (NMN) None
3. SECURITY BOCIAL SECURITY NO.
HAVING
112-28-1134
4. DATE OF BIRTH 5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country)
(Day, Month, Year)
4 April 1936 Bronx, New York, New York, USA
6. GRADE AND POSITION
N/A

7. REQUESTED ACTION INVESTIGATION VALIDATION RECORDS CHECK

8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION: 9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
NAC NACI BI OTHER (Explain in Item 15) TOP SECRET SECRET CONFIDENTIAL
10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR: b. FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
Induction
c. INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
11. JUSTIFICATION
PAR 18, AR 604-10 d. OTHER (Explain in Item 15)
12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:
NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION
CONTEMPLATED
INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15
13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom) 14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE
EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE
N/A N/A
15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.).
Request investigation of registrant in view of remarks made by registrant in remarks
section of DD Form 98 and DD Form 398.

Headquarters
US Army Recruiting Command
Hampton, Virginia 23369
INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
2 1,LT, AGC

SECTION II - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
16. NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED DATE
ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
ITEMS
INCLS INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.

DA FORM 2784 TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
1 APR 64 035
For Official Use Only
NW 88613 Docld:34530123 Page 2

FOR OFFICIALSE ONLY
SECTION III - REQUE....R TO CONTROL OFFICE DATE
17. REPORT OF ACTION
INFORMATION NOTED SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON- INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO
SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION
MAY BE CANCELED. OF INVESTIGATION.
18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED
19. REMARKS (If retuming corrected forms, state here)

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
8 11
DATE 29 FEB 1967
SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY
20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
NO RECORD FAVORABLE MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21
PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER-
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION. MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION COMPLETED BY DATE DOSSIER NUMBER
NAC NACI ১ B OTHER USAINTC 16 Feb 67 Hι οι 69 40
21. REMARKS
a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873
(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.
b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE
RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.
C. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH
AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS ARPLICABLE.

INCLS
DOSSIER HI 01 69 40
NAME AND TITLE
DAN H. DIETRICH, JR
Col, AlS, Chief, Ops III
SIGNATURE
DATE
SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE
22. REPORT OF ACTION
FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION, REQUEST ADDITIONAL INVESTI-
COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24 GATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24
23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED
24. REMARKS

INCLS
5 ТИФ ВЕΖΩΓ
د
TYRED NAME ANOLIE-LE SIGNATURE
(५४ 381-130.
Е БЕВРОЧИЕГЕ
FOR OFFICIAL LE ONLY
NW 88613 Docld:34530123 Page 3
