JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 01/13/98
Page : 1
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10135
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 14-14A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : USAPSG
TO : DCS-OPS USAINTC
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE: 05/05/67
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS: FROMER, DAVID REED

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94.

NW 88613 Docld:34528544 Page 1

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
(AR 381-130)
THRU:
TO: (Control Office)
DCS-OPS
USAINTC
ATTN: OPS III (Mr. Burwasser)
Fort Holabird, Md.

U.S. Army Fersonnel Security Group
Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219
ATIN: Adjudications Division

DATE 5 May 1967
FROM: (Requesting Agency)
USAPSG

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

DOSSIER, NO. OPENING DATE

REMARKS

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and
middle names)
FROMER, David Reed
4. DATE OF BIRTH
(Day, Month, Year)
21 July 1942
7. REQUESTED ACTION
8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:
NAC
NACI
2. ALIAS(ES), MAIDEN NAME
None
5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City,. State and country)
Chicago, Illinois
3. SERVICE/SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
564-58-8137
6. GRADE AND POSITION
Registrant
XINVESTIGATION VALIDATION RECORDS CHECK
BI ☑ OTHER (Explain in Item 15)
9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
TOP SECRET SECRET CONFIDENTIAL
10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:
b. FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
11. JUSTIFICATION
c. INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
d. OTHER (Explain in Item 15)
12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:
NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION
CONTEMPLATED
INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15
13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom) 14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE
EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE
15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.).
Request that Headquarters and Local FBI (S) file checks be conducted on SUBJECT's
parents.
"Request this investigation be expedited as determination under AR 604-10 is
being delayed at Department of the Army pending results".
REGRAD
ON 2 Sepqy COIFIED
BY CUR : F01/ΡΟ
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R
INCLS
Dossier 564588137
re SUBJECT
16.
INCLS
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
JB FINNEGAN
COL AIS
SECTION 11 CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED
14 SIGNATURE
DATE LIRR COPY

ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED.. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.
TYPED NAME AND TITLE Regraded UN SIGNATURE
when separated from
DA FORM 2784
1 APR 64 classified inclosures
NW 88613 Docld:34528544 Page 2

SECTION III REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
Мила PATRO
17. REPORT OF ACTION
INFORMATION NOTED
SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON-
SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION
MAY BE CANCELED.
INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO
CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION
OF INVESTIGATION.
18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO PER
HEADQUARTERS DATED
19. REMARKS (If retuming corrected forms, state here)

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

SECTION IV CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY DATE
20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
NO RECORD FAVORABLE MINOR'UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21
PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER-
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION. MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION COMPLETED BY DATE DOSSIER NUMBER
NAC NACI BI OTHER
21. REMARKS
a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873
(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.
b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE
RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.
c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH
AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

SECTION V ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE DATE
22. REPORT OF ACTION
FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF
COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED
23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO
UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION,
RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24
HEADQUARTERS PER
REQUEST ADDITIONAL INVESTI-
GATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24
DATED
24. REMARKS
REGRAD
ON 2 Sepqy
BY CUR
24
COIFIED
F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R
INCLS TYRED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
142
NW 88613 Docld:34528544 Page 3
