Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10496
RECORDS SERIES : FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AB632604W PAGES 76-79

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Date : 09/30/98
Page: 1

ORIGINATOR :
FROM : EDIFANIO ROMERO-DELGADO
TO :
TITLE : DD FORM 398 -. STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY
DATE : 01/18/63
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS : ROMERODELGADO, EPIFANIO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34528389 Page 1

els CR #53348
STATEMENT OF PERSONAD HISTORY

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all
answers. All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "None," so state. Do not misstate or omit material
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and
attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

1. (Print) FIRST NAME-MIDDLE NAME--MAIDEN NAME (If any)-LAST NAME
MR.
MRS.
MISS Edifanio ROMERO-Delgado
3. ALIAS(ES), NICKNAME(S), OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriage)
Piche

5. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year)
21 Jan 1936
RACE
Cau
HEIGHT
WEIGHT
11 165
66"

2. STATUS
X CIVILIAN MILITARY ON ACTIVE DUTY

4. PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS
1140 SW 9th St. Miami, Fla.
PLACE OF BIRTH (City, County, State, and Country)
PLACE CERTIFICATE RECORDED
Candelario, PinardelRio, Cuba Candelario, Pinardel Rio, Cuba
COLOR OF HAIR
SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING MARKS
Brown
Brown
NONE
COLOR OF EYES

6. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS? YES NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS
NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? YES NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHRONIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? YES NO IF THE
ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES." EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

7. U. S. CITIZEN
NATIVE
IF NATURALIZED, CERTIFICATE NO. IF DERIVED, PARENTS' CERTIFICATE NO(S). DATE. PLACE, AND COURT
YES NO
ALIEN
X
REGISTRATION NO.
A13 108 636
NATIVE COUNTRY
Cuba
DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY
21 Sept 1962
Texas.
DO YOU INTEND TO BECOME
A U. S. CITIZEN?
YES NO
8. MILITARY SERVICE
ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U. S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY? YES NO IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION DATE CURRENT ACTIVE
SERVICE STARTED
ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF A U. S. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION? YES NO IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION

HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY, DRAWING FULL PAY, FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUS? YES NO
IF "YES." COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
COUNTRY SERVICE COMPONENT FROM (Date) TO (Date) TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS-GRADE AND SERVICE NO.
9. EDUCATION (Account for all civilian schools and military academies. Do not include service schools)

MONTH AND YEAR NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL GRADUATE
FROM- TO- YES NO DEGREE

Sep 46 Jun 49 Escuela Publica San Cristobal
FAMILY (List in order given, parents, spouse, guardians, stepparents, foster parents, parents-in-law, former spouse(s) (if divorced give date
and place), children, brothers and sisters, even though deceased. Include any others you resided with or with whom a close relationship
existed or exists. If the person is not a U. S. citizen by birth, give date and port of entry, alien registration number, naturalization certificate
number and place of issuance.)

RELATION AND NAME
DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING U. S. CITIZEN
YES NO
Felipe Romero
FATHER date unknown DECEASED X
MOTHER (Maiden name) Conzolaciondel Sur, Cuba
date unknown Finca Sabana La Mar
Sagunda Delgado X
SPOUSE (Maiden name) San Cristobal Pinardel Rio, Cuba
Ilda Martinez
OTHER (Specify) 1 Feb 1936 Candelaria
Pinardel Rio, Cuba 11 11 11 11 X
Arturo Romero 9 May 1962 San Cristobal
Son Finar delRio, Cuba 11 11 11 11 X
Balerio Romero Finca Sabana La MarSan
B Cristobal Pinardel Rio Cuba Π 11 11 11 X
Jose Manuel Romero B 11 11 11 X
76
Aniceto Romero B 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 X
Santiago Romero B 11 11 11 11 1 11 11 X
NW88 Dood: 3452809 PageE2OUS EDITIONS ALE OBSOLETE. Exception to Standard Form 86
Approved by Bureau of the Budget June 1960

14. 11.
OTHER RELATIVES AND ALIEN FRIENDS LIVING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES (List grandparents, first cousins, aunts, uncles,
brothers- and sisters-in-law, and other persons with whom a close relationship existed or exists)

RELATIONSHIP AND NAME AGE OCCUPATION ADDRESS CITIZENSHIP
Juan Delgado U 36 farmer Consolasiondel Sur, Cuba Cuban
Pedro Delgado U 38 " Candelaria Pinardel Rio, Cuba
Francisco Delgado U 40 " Santa Grus Pinardel Rio, Cuba 11
Niebe Delgado A 39 housewife " " "
Maria Delgado A 39 " 1 " " 1
DATES
FROM- TO- COUNTRY VISITED PURPOSE OF TRAVEL

29 Aug62 21 Sep62 Mexico in transit to USA

13. 12.
MONTH AND YEAR EMPLOYMENT (Show every employment you have had and all periods of unemployment)
FROM- TO- NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER NAME OF IMMEDIATE REASON FOR LEAVING
SUPERVISOR
Feb59 Jan 60 Equipos Quesada Nestor Prieto Politicalreasons
Pinardel Rio, Cuba

DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? YES NO DO YOU HAVE
ANY FOREIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? YES NO HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? YES
NO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
463-74-2051

CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons living outside the
United States or its Territories.

NAME YEARS STREET AND NUMBER STATE OR
(List 3 credit and 5 character) KNOWN (Business address preferred) CITY TERRITORY
NONE

Juan Noriega 10 1040 15th St.Apt#15 Miami Beach Fla
Gustado Acosta 10mo 1140SW 9th St. Miami "
77

REMARKS.
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1960 0-573450
NW 88613 Docld:34528389 Page 3

15. MONTH AND YEAR LIST ALL RESIDENCES FROM 1 JANUARY 1937
STREET AND NUMBER CITY STATE OR COUNTRY
FROM- TO-

Jan37 Aug62 Finca Sabanalamar Pinardelio Cuba
Aug62 Dec62 1140 SW 9th St. Miami Fla.

16.
NAME AND ADDRESS TYPE OFFICE HELD MEMBERSHIP
(Social, fraternal, professional, etc.) FROM- TO-
MRC CUBA
MDC CUBA Subject claims he assisted any and all organizations
UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA, CUBA against Castro, These were all in Cuba
BodeNor, CUBA

17. PAST AND/OR PRESENT MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS
YES NO
X ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY U. S. A., OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS ANYWHERE?

X ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGANIZATION?

X ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION, ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH ADVOCATES THE
OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR WHICH HAS ADOPTED THE POLICY OF ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE
OR VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF
THE UNITED STATES BY UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS?

x ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE AS AN AGENT, OFFICIAL, OR EMPLOYEE?

ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH, OR HAVE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH ANY INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE, ARE OR
HAVE BEEN MEMBERS OF ANY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIED ABOVE? X

X HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE: CONTRIBUTION(S) TO, ATTENDANCE AT OR
PARTICIPATION IN ANY ORGANIZATIONAL, SOCIAL, OR OTHER ACTIVITIES OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM: THE SALE, GIFT, OR DIS-
TRIBUTION OF ANY WRITTEN, PRINTED, OR OTHER MATTER, PREPARED, REPRODUCED, OR PUBLISHED, BY THEM OR ANY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALITIES?
IF"YES," DESCRIBE THE CIRCUMSTANCES. ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS FOR A FULL DETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, SPECIFY NATURE
AND EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, INCLUDING OFFICE OR POSITION HELD, ALSO INCLUDE DATES. PLACES, AND CREDENTIALS NOW OR FORMERLY HELD. IF ASSOCIATIONS HAVE
BEEN WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, THEN LIST THE INDIVIDUALS AND THE ORGANIZATIONS WITH WHICH THEY WERE OR ARE AFFILIATED.

18. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DETAINED, HELD, ARRESTED. INDICTED OR SUMMONED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING, OR CONVICTED, FINED, OR IMPRISONED OR
PLACED ON PROBATION, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (excluding
minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25, or less was imposed)? INCLUDE ALL COURT MARTIALS WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE. YES NO
IF "YES, LIST THE DATE, THE NATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE NAME AND LOCATION OF THE COURT OR PLACE OF HEARING, AND THE PENALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER
DISPOSITION OF EACH CASE.

Has been in Jail without trial in the G-2 of Pinar del Rio, Cuba about 18 days from
22 April 1961 for political reasons.

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM
THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FURTHER EXPLANATION? YES NO IF "YES. GIVE DETAILS

NW 88613 Docld:34528389 Page 4

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM
THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FURTHER EXPLANATION? YES NO IF "YES. GIVE DETAILS
20. REMARKS
ITEM #LO
Fernando Romero B San Cir to bal Pinardelio San Cristobal Pinardelio, Cuba
Finca Santa Amalia Sabana La Mar
Sabina Romero S " " " " " "
Augustina RomeroS " " " " " "

I CERTIFY THAT THE ENTRIES MADE BY ME ABOVE ARE TRUE, COMPLETE, AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN
GOOD FAITH. I UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM CAN BE PUNISHED BY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH
(See U. S. Code, title 18, section 1001)
:
DATE SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING FORM
18 Jan 63 Elamis Plomero Delgado
TYPED NAME AND ADDRESS OF WITNESS SIGNATURE OF WITNESS
LUISA. ZAYAS, MSGT, AFES&IS, CORALGABLES, FLA.

21. THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTIGATION
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (top secret, secret, etc.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS

79
RECORD OF PRIOR CLEARANCES
DATE OF CLEARANCE TYPE OF CLEARANCE AGENCY THAT COMPLETED INVESTIGATION

REMARKS,
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1960 0-573450
NW 88613 Docld:34528389 Page 5
