Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 08/19/98
Page : 1
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10005-10030
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 2

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED]
DATE : 00/00/00
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

ALIASES

COSUBJECTS

INDEX TRACING RECORD OF ALIASES AND COSUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529810 Page 1

INDEX TRACING RECORD OF ALIASES AND COSUBJECTS

For use of this form, see AR 381-45; the proponent agency is
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.
NOTE: Alias and cosubject names developed during
subsequent or "bring-up" investigations, will be sepa-
rated from those previously recorded by entry of the date
this supplemental action is taken.

SUBJECT (Last Name, First Name, Middle Name)
SHeer, Robert
SOCIAL SECURITY OR SERIAL NO.
DATE OF BIRTH
PLACE OF BIRTH
DOSSIER NUMBER
12281134
112 281134
4 Apr 36

THE FOLLOWING NAMES HAVE BEEN CARDED AS ALIASES OR COSUBJECTS APPEARING IN THIS DOSSIER. THIS FORM WILL BE
PLACED AT THE TOP OF THE DOSSIER.

ALIASES - IDENTIFYING DATA AS ABOVE

Sheer, Robert

COSUBJECTS
Hendel, Samuel
Bishop, Hillman M.
SOCIAL SECURITY
OR SERIAL NO.
DATE OF BIRTH
PLACE OF BIRTH
DOCUMENT
DATED

Enter the date of the document in which name is recorded.
DA FORM 2371
NW 88613 Docld:34529810 Page 2
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 0 - 576545
