JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 09/24/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER : 206-10001-10007
RECORDS SERIES : PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : MINUTES OF BOARD MEETING OF AUGUST 6 AND 7, 1964
DATE : 08/06/64
PAGES : 11
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR AUGUST 6 AND 7, 1963 MEETING

SUMMARY OF AUGUST 6 AND 7, 1963 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS OPEN IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/98 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88132
DocId:34671882 Page 1

206-10001-10007

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

MINUTES OF

BOARD MEETING
OF
AUGUST 6 and 7, 1964

NW88122
DocId:34671882 Page 2

MINUTES OF

BOARD MEETING
OF
AUGUST 6 and 7, 1964

NW88102
DocId:34671882 Page 3

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD AGENDA

August 5, 1964
1. 8:30 P.M. Depart Andrews AFB via Special Mission
aircraft (Constellation)
2. 11:00 P.M., CST Arrive Offutt AFB
(approx.) Remain overnight at Offutt Inn

August 6, 1964
Item Time Subject
1. 8:00 - 9:30 Meeting with General Thomas Power, CINCSAC,
and SAC Command Post Status Briefing
2. 9:30 - 10:00 Intelligence Warning
3. 10:30 - 11:00 Intelligence War Planning
4. 11:00 - 12:15 Soviet Bloc Threat
a. Information Deficiencies
b. Coverage Deficiencies
c. Impact on the Single Integrated
Operational Plan (SIOP)

DocId:34671882 Page 4
5. 12:15 - 1:00 Lunch
6. 1:00 - 2:00 Continue with Item 4
7. 2:00 - 2:30 Intelligence Data Handling System (IDHS).
8. 2:30 - 3:00 SAC-NSA Special Project
9. 3:10 Depart Offutt AFB
10. 9:10 (approx.) Arrive Andrews AFB

August 7, 1964
1. 9:00 - 9:30 Chairman's Time
2. 9:30-16:15 Current Intelligence Briefing on the
Situations in South Vietnam, North Vietnam,
Laos, Cambodia, Communist China, Cyprus,
Congo, Cuba
Mr. Ray Cline
Deputy Director of Intelligence, CIA

GAMBIT/FULCRUM Handle Via BYEMAN
Control System

Agenda For August 7: (Continued)
Item Time Subject
3. 10:15 - 11:15 The National Reconnaissance Program:
a. Resume of Operations - CY 1964
b. Concepts for Advanced Satellite
Reconnaissance Systems (GAMBIT 3,
FULCRUM, others)
c. Budget Outlook
Dr. Brockway McMillan, Director, NRO
Col. John Strand
4. 11:15 - 12:00 Foreign Intelligence Budgeting and
Management:
a. Budget Patterns for this Fiscal Year
b. Budget Outlook as to Principal Trends
and Problems Over the Next Five Years
Mr. Kermit Gordon
Director, Bureau of the Budget
Mr Elmer Staats
Deputy Director, Bureau of the Budget
Mr. Robert Amory
Assistant Director, Bureau of the Budget

5. 12:00 - 12:45 Lunch - The White House Mess
6. 12:45 - 1:00 Executive Session
7. 1:00 - 2:00 Audio Surveillance Collection and Counter-
measures Efforts of the Intelligence
Community:
a. USIB conclusions and recommendations
on the organization and management
of the effort
Mr. Tom Karamessines, CIA
Mr. Robert Bannerman, CIA
b. Final US IB assessment of audio penetra-
tions of U. S Embassy, Moscow
Mr. Howard Osborn, CIA
Mr. G. Marvin Gentile, Department of State
8. 2:00 - 2:15 Executive Session
9. 2:15 - 3:15 Status Report on Developments Pertaining
2:40-3:30 to the Defense Intelligence Agency
Lt. General Joseph F. Carroll, USAF
Director, Defense Intelligence Agency.

GAMBIT/FULCRUM Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

NW-88132
Docld:34671882 Page 5

Agenda For August 7: (Continued)
Item Time Subject
10. 3:15 - 4:00 Status Report on the Implementation
of Prior Board Recommendations
11. 3:30 - 5:15 Discussions with the Director of
4:00 - 5:30 Central Intelligence
12. 5:30 - End of Executive Session
Day

DocId:34671882 Page 6

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

SUBJECT: August 6-7, 1964, Meeting of the
President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board

August 6, 1964

The first day of this scheduled 2-day meeting of the Board was devoted
to an all-day visit at SAC Headquarters, Offutt AFB, Omaha, Nebraska, on
August 6. In attendance were Messrs. Clifford, Doolittle, Langer, Pace, Gray,
Land, and Coyne. Board members Murphy and Baker were unable to join the
meeting at SAC.

August 7, 1964

On the second day of its meeting the Board convened at 9:00 a.m. on
August 7 at the Board's offices in the Executive Office Building, Washington,
D. C. Present were Messrs. Clifford, Doolittle, Murphy, Langer, Pace, Baker
and Gray; and Messrs. Coyne and Ash. (Board member Land joined the meeting
a little later on.)

Chairman Clifford commented on the valuable experience gained by the
Board in the course of its visit to SAC headquarters the previous day,
during which the Board had an opportunity to examine some fundamental
intelligence problems confronting the U. S. and the USAF. Mr. Clifford
mentioned the usefulness of the Board getting out of the atmosphere of "theory"
in Washington, in order to view intelligence activities and problems on the
scene. He thought that the Board's visit to SAC might well lead to action
on the part of the Board with respect to some of the matters examined and
discussed at Omaha.

Mr. Clifford pointed out that events of the last few days in the Gulf
of Tonkin had necessitated some last minute changes in the agenda of the
Board's meeting, and that particular attention would today be devoted to
intelligence aspects of the Vietnam situation.

The Chairman informed Boardmbers that Presidential action on the
Board's May 2 report and recommendations concerning the National Reconnaissance
Program awaits the outcome of pending considerations and discussions between
Mr. McGeorge Bundy, Secretary of Defense McNamara, and the Director of Central
Intelligence, Mr. McCone. Mr. Bundy, who has been following the McNamara-
McCone discussions in the hope of seeing those officials reach agreement on
the organization and management of NRP activities, recently asked Chairman
Clifford if the Board could take part in these discussions with a view to
facilitating agreement on the part of the Secretary of Defense and the DCI.
Mr. Clifford, speaking for the Board, told Mr. Bundy that the Board felt that

ARGON/CORONA/FULCRUM/GAMBIT/OXCART
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System
DocId:34671882 Page 7

increase is expected over the next 5- 6 years (except for new reconnaissance
systems for which CIA might become responsible).

Mr. Gray asked for the DCI's views on the capability' of the intelligence
estimating mechanism to avoid being influenced by the wishful thinking of
responsible officials, as in the case of the erroneous estimate on Cuba prior
to the Soviet missile crisis in 1962. Mr. McCone said that a better example.
than Cuba was the estimate on Brazil which was bitterly resisted by people
in Government who nevertheless later saw the accuracy of the estimate proved
by developments.

Chairman Clifford observed that at SAC headquarters the day before,
SAC representatives suggested that they should have representation on COMOR
in US IB. The DCI said that the AF already has a representative on COMOR,
and if SAC were specifically added then a similar request would be made by
other commands such as NORAD and CINCEUR. Mr. Coyne observed that the
representation desired by SAC was on behalf of the SAC Commander in his role
on the Joint Strategic Planning Group.

In response to Mr. Murphy's query about Cuba, the DCI said that an
estimated 5,000 Soviets had departed since May 1, leaving 2,000 on the island.
The Cubans now have control of air defense and coastal defense but the question
is whether they have unlimited control of the SAM sites.

Chairman Clifford turned to another subject, asking for any new views
the DCI might have on the desirability of creating the position of "Chief.
U. S. Intelligence Officer" who would be divorced from direction of the CIA..
Mr. McCone said he had thought a lot about it but does not believe that such
an official could be effective if not linked to the CIA which by law has the
responsibility for coordinating all intelligence from all sources.

Mr. Pace expressed the opinion that it is not possible for the head of
CIA to render abstract opinions in the capacity of DCI. Mr. Clifford urged
the DCI to help the Board explore the possibilities of new organizational
approaches to this problem, now that 17 years have passed since the CIA was
established under the National Security Act. Mr. McCone said that he sees
the problem as having arisen because CIA has become a member agency of the
intelligence community as well as being charged by law to serve as coordinator
of all intelligence; and perhaps we are not managing properly the arrangement
that presently exists.

Mr. McCone agreed to have a study made of the matter raised by the
Chairman, as soon as possible.

Mr. McCone and Mr. Kirkpatrick departed, the meeting at 5:10 p.m.

At 5:20 p.m. the Board adjourned, closing its 2-day meeting.

Handle via BYEMAN
Control System
A. R. Ash

Docld:34671882 Page 8

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

August 3, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE BOARD

SUBJECT: Audiosurveillance Collection and Countermeasures
Efforts of the Intelligence Community

In Executive Session Mr. Ash will brief the Board on:
significant developments relating to the subject which
members may wish to keep in mind when USIB representatives
discuss the matter with the Board.

Following Mr. Ash's briefing, Mr. Tom Karamessines,
Assistant to CIA's Deputy Director for Plans, and Mr.
Robert Bannerman of CIA's Deputy Directorate for Support,
will brief the Board on the U. S. Intelligence Board's
conclusions and recommendations on the organization and
management of the audiosurveillance-effort. (On June 26,
1964 following the Board's recommendations to the President,
Mr. Bundy requested the Director of Central Intelligence,
as Chairman of the USIB, to present coordinated proposals
for the most effective possible organization, management,
and coordination of the intelligence community's resources
and capabilities for research and development, and the
operational application, of techniques for audiosurveillance
collection and audiosurveillance countermeasures. The
organization and management aspects of this problem are
indicated by the fact that under present arrangements:
(1) research and development of audiosurveillance collection
and countermeasure devices and techniques are pursued
separately by State, Defense and CIA; (2) the coordination
of audiosurveillance collection operations is the responsibility
of the FBI in the U. 3., and is the responsibility of the DCI
overseas; and (3) the coordination of audiosurveillance
countermeasures activities is the responsibility of an NSC
Interagency committee chaired by the Department of State.)

Next Mr. Howard Osborne, Director of CIA's Office of
Security, and Mr. G.Marvin Gentile, Director of Security
at the Department of State, will bring the Board up to date
on the USIB's final assessment of the audio and electromagnetic
penetrations of the U. S. Embassy, Moscow which were discovered
in April.

(At the last meeting the Board was provided with results
of USIB's preliminary assessment of damage caused by these
Not taken up at August Meeting
DocId:34671882 Page 9

penetrations. Subsequent to the last meeting the President
requested the Chairman, USIB, to provide a final assessment
of damage in time for consideration by the Board at its
August 6-7 meeting.)

J. P. Coyne

Addendum: Enclosed for the information of the Board is a
memorandum entitled "Bugging of the U. S. Embassy, Moscow"
which was submitted to the Chairman by Dr. Jerome Wiesner,
following his oral presentation to the Board subsequent
to his on-the-scene examination of developments at the
Embassy in Moscow.

DocId:34671882 Page 10

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

June 24, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Clark M. Clifford
Chairman, President's Foreign Intelligence
Advisory Board
SUBJECT: Bugging of the U. S. Embassy, Moscow

During my recent trip to Moscow I visited the American
Embassy and had a number of conversations with Mr. Musser
who has the responsibility for assuring that the building
is secure against listening devices. I also examined a
number of key offices in the Embassy building, including
several in which microphones had been found, and examined
the special secure rooms that have recently been installed.
I formed the following judgments regarding the present
situation.

1. There is no convincing basis for concluding that
additional listening systems do not exist in the building.

2. The soundproof rooms and the special room contain-
ing the teletype equipment appear to be secure, though the
former are not electrically shielded. The lack of shielding
is probably not serious because the rooms are in the interior
of the building and under guard at all times so that the use
of microphones or of electromagnetic listening devices in
them would be extremely difficult.

3. The physical security of the building seemed a
bit less than adequate. For example, it was possible for
us to go in and out of the room housing the telephone switch-
board with no one but the telephone operator--who I believe
was a Russian girl--seeing us. I understand that at night
no one is in the room. Physical security is complicated
somewhat by the fact that the building is also the residence
for Embassy employees and by the fact that the local guard
staff is very small; none the less this is a problem that
should receive attention.

4. Mr. Musser is extremely competent but the task at
the Embassy is more than any one person could handle at
this time
I would recommend the following measures:

1. Provide Musser with some assistance He has had
some help from the American forces in Germany from time to
DocId:34671882 Page 11

time but when I was there he was working by himself. Because
of the housing shortage the Embassy is reluctant to add to the
staff. The fact is, as I have already said, in spite of
Musser's outstanding ability he cannot do the job that now
must be done without substantial continuing assistance. He
also needs additional equipment.

2. A very complete physical examination must be made of
any room that is to be used for confidential conversations.
This should include x-ray or neutron examination of the walls,
floors and ceilings if possible. Possibly other techniques
can be found which would also help locate hidden equipment.

3. If x-ray examination is not feasible, physical
examination of the outside of the building should be considered.

4. In critical areas new wall surfaces should be provided.
Expert advice is needed to determine whether plastering or
paneling would provide the best protection.

5. Dr. Land's proposal for inducing masking sounds into
the walls should be pursued. It should be possible to introduce
such sounds directly into the walls without creating objectionable
sound levels in the rooms. This should be investigated before
a decision is made regarding new wall covering.

6. Screening should be provided against electromagnetic-
reflection listening devices.

7. The possibility of providing continuous monitors for
signals from such devices should be investigated.

8. More effort should be made to understand the purpose
of the microwave signal directed at the Embassy, or failing in
this, to stop it. It is hard to understand why we have been
so unconcerned about it.

9. An effort should be made to insure that the telephone
system cannot be used as a distribution system for listening
devices.

10. I understand that head sets and microphones exist
that permit secure conversations. Though they may be awkward
they should be used for confidential discussions held outside
of the secure rooms until greater confidence can be established
in the security of the building.

11. I believe that there is a desperate need for a
DocId:34671882 Page 12

professional group in the government to develop protective
techniques for our embassies. Such a group should work with
or at least have full access to a group whose task is to
develop sophisticated penetration devices so that its work
is effectively directed against all of the real threats that
can be imagined.

Dr. Jerome B. Wiesner

Docld:34671882 Page 13
