JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 09/24/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER: 206-10001-100.13
RECORDS SERIES: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: MINUTES OF BOARD MEETING OF JUNE 4, 1964
DATE: 06/04/64
PAGES: 29
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR JUNE 4, 1964 MEETING

SUMMARY OF JUNE 4, 1964 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98
OPENING CRITERIA : 08/01/2024
COMMENTS. :

2025 Release under the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act
bf 1992

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88132
DocId:34671888 Page 1.

206-10001-10013

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

MINUTES
OF
BOARD
MEETING
OF
JUNE 4,
1964

206-10001-10013
NW88121
DocId:34671888 Page 2

TOP SECRET

PRESIDENT'S FOREICH INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MEETING OF JE 4, 1964

THE TIME SUBJECT
1. 9:00-9:30 Chairman's Time
2. 9:30-9:45 National Reconnaissance Program Status Report
Mr. Coyne
3. 9:45-10:00 Audio Penetrations of U.S. Embassy, Mos.COW
Dr. Baker and Fir. Coyne
4. 10:00-10:15 Executive Session
5. 10:15-11:00 USIB Actions Related to Audio. Pentrations-
Moscow
Mr. Robert Bennerman
Chairman, Security Committee, USIB
Mr. G. Marvin Gentile
Director of Security, Department of State
6. 11:00-11:45 Assessment of Potential Damage to Cryptographic
Systems Caused by Audio Penetrations--Moscow
Lt. General Cordon Blake
Director, National Security Agency
Dr. Louis Tordella
Deputy Director, National Security Agency
7. 12:45-12:00 Executive Session
8. 12:00-1:00 Lunch The White House Mess
9. 1:00-2:00 Current Intelligence Briefing on':
a. Chi-Com Capabilities and Intentions as
related to Southeast Asia, India and USSR
b. The Situations in South Vietnam, Laos,
Cambodia and North Vietnam
c. The Cyprus Situation
d. The Cuba Situation.
Mr. Ray Cline
Deputy Director of Intelligence, CIA

TOP SECRET
NW 185
Doeld 26035
NW 88192
Docld:34671888 Page 3

NW 185
Dordo: 2505
NW 88182
Docld:34671888 Page 4
AGENDA FOR JUNE 4, 1964 (Continued):
TIME SUBJECT

10. 2:00-2:45 Status Report on Military (peripheral and
overflight) Reconnaissance Programs
(other than satellite)
Colonel Ralph D. Steakley, USAF
Director, Joint Reconnaissance Center,
Pentagon
1.1. 2:45-3:00 Executive Session
12. 8:00-3:30 On-the-Scene Review at Moscow. Embassy
of State Department's Counter-audiosurveil-
lance Measures to Safeguard U. S. Classified
Systems and Information
Dr. Jerome Wiesner
M.I.T. (White House Consultant and former
Science Advisor to the President)
13. 3:30-4:00 Status Report on the Implementation of
Prior Board Recommendations
Mr. Ash
14. 4:00.-5:30 Discussions with the Director of
Central Intelligence
Mr. John A. McCone
15. --5:30-6:30 Executive Session
16. 6:30-8:00 Dinner Metropolitan Club
17. 8:00-End a) Discussion of peripheral and over-
of Day flight reconnaissance
9:30 b) Discussion of audio problem
c) Consideration of up-dated requirements
for Annual Reports to the Board by
State, Defense, CIM, and the DCI.

TOP SECRET

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
TOP SECRET
19
This document consists of
No. of 2 Copics, Series
June 17, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
SUBJECT: President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board Meeting,
June 4, 1964.

This regularly scheduled meeting of the Board convened at 9:00 a.m.,
June 4, 1964, in the Board offices, 297 Executive Office Building. Previously
scheduled as a 2-day meeting, it was compressed into one day in order to
accommodate other commitments and to permit the holding of Board Panel sessions
on the following day. Present were Chairman Clifford and Messrs. Pace, Murphy,
Langer and Gray; and J. Patrick Coyne and A. R. Ash. General Doolittle was
unable to attend because of transportation difficulties in Alaska. Messrs
Baker and Land were unavoidably late in arriving, and upon their arrival later
in the morning received a fill-in from the Chairman concerning the matters
which had been discussed up to that point.

Chairman Clifford pointed out that the business of this meeting was
confined to major subjects of particular importance: (1) recont developments
following the submission to the President of the Board's May 2 report and
recommendations on the National Reconnaissance Program (2) the recent discovery
of extensive microphone installations in the U. S. Embassy, Moscow a most
serious penetration which had prompted the Chairman to request a Board Panel
study immediately upon his learning of the discovery, and (3) the subject of
acquiring intelligence on Communist China, a problem highlighted by remarks of
the Secretary of Defense when he was recently visited by Chairman Clifford,
Dr. Baker and Mr. Coyne at which time Secretary McNamara expressed deep con-
cern over the absence of meaningful intelligence on Chinese capabilities,
intentions and activities (Mr. McNamara said that the USIB is not adequate for
his purposes in this regard; he has to make decisions without the benefit of
adequate intelligence support; if he can't get help from the USIB and CIA he
will attempt to get the required intelligence through other sources; and he
would welcome any assistance the Board might provide as a means of resolving
this intelligence collection problem.)

With reference to the Board's report on the National Reconnaissance
Program, Mr. Clifford said that it had gone to the White House on May 2.
Thereafter two appointments with the President had to be cancelled, thereby
preventing discussion of the report with the President. Accordingly,
Mr. Clifford suggested to Mr. McGeorge Bundy that the matter was urgent.
The same day, Mr. Bundy took up the report with the President, with the
resulting decision that Mr. Bundy would obtain the views and comments of the
Secretary of Defense and of the DCI, Mr. McCone, concerning the Board's report
and recommendations, in order that further consideration might be given by
the President.
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

NW185
NW 88
Docld:34671888 Page 5
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
NDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

At Mr. Clifford's request, Mr. Coyne summarized the comments which had
been submitted on the NRP report by the two officials in response to Mr. Bundy's
memorandum. The June 2, 1964, response from Deputy Secretary Vance expressed
concurrence of the Department of Defense in the report and its readiness to
carry out the recommendations when instructed to do so. However, in his May 28
memorandum to Mr. Bundy, the DCI reported that he found it difficult to distill
his thoughts in time for a written expression of views for immediate consideration;
that he would be able to discuss the matter orally with the Board at this meeting;
that his written views could be submitted by June 15; and that meanwhile he
intended to discuss with the Director, NRO, any management problems the latter
might have in mind.

Chairman Clifford thought it gratifying that the Defense Department had
accepted the Board's NRP report and recommendations in toto, and he referred to
informally received indications that the Department of Defense is anxious to
get on with the actions proposed in the Board's report. Noting that the pre-
liminary reply from the DCI was noncommital, Mr. Clifford thought it best that
the Board not engage in a discussion of the NRP report with the DCI when he
joined the Board meeting later in the day. Mr. Clifford observed that the Board
had studied the subject in depth; it had reached conclusions and made recommenda-
tions to the President; Mr. Bundy had asked for comments to the President by
Messrs. McNamara and McCone; and it was desirable to keep the matter in that
channel, rather than reopening discussions with the DCI at this Board meeting.

(Dr. Baker arrived at the Board meeting at this point.)

At the Chairman's request, Mr. Coyne summarized for the Board the reported
successes and failures of satellite reconnaissance photographic missions since
January 1, 1964 (4 successful missions; 3 failures) and the NRO mission schedule
for the remainder of the year. (He also referred to the NRO report that OXCART
has been flown at Mach 3.2 at 81,700 feet.)

Chairman Clifford noted that the manner in which the NRO reports on its
satellite missions leaves much to be desired. He felt that the Board should ask
for more meaningful reports from NRO, reflecting the number of missions scheduled,
the number that were launched, how many succeeded, and how many failed anú why.
Also Mr. Clifford thought that the Board should be fully informed on how the
USIB determines that the NRO has a capability to meet specified intelligence
requirements through the launching of "X" number of missions over a given future
period, e.g., "two flights per month".

Dr. Baker added that no one has efficiently organized the process of
analyzing the photographic take from satellite missions, for the purpose of
identifying intelligence targets which warrant further "point search" on future.
missions.

Turning to the matter of the technical penetration of the U. S. Embassy,
Moscow, Mr. Clifford recalled that he had asked the Board's Baker Panel and
Mr. Coyne to go into the subject immediately upon Mr. Clifford's learning of the
discovery of the first of the 41 microphones on April 23. He noted that
Mr. Bundy had asked Dr. Jerome Wiesner to make an on-the-scene assessment of
the penetration during Dr. Wiesner's visit to Moscow this past week on other

NW 185
Docld: 2503
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
NW 88192
Docld:34671888 Page 6
2
TOP SECRET

NW 185
Docld 2503
Pade P
NW 88132
Docld:34671888 Page 7
TOP SEONET

business, and he would join the Board meeting later in the day to report on
that assessment. Also, Mr. Clifford noted, the Board meeting would later
be joined by Dr. Tordella of NSA, Mr. Bannerman of CIA who chairs the USIB
Security Committee, and Mr. Gentile who serves as Director of Security in
the State Department.

Mr. Coyne summarized for Board members the highlights of the discovery
of the technical penetration of the Enbassy in Moscow, with indications that
the 41 microphones, the 3 coaxial cables, the wiring, and the fixed antenna
in the wall, have all been in place since 1952 when the Soviet Union completed
construction on the Embassy building in preparation for U. S. occupancy which
took place in 1953.

(Dr. Land arrived at the Board meeting at this point.)

Mr. Coyne drew attention to the fact that the microphone installations
included coverage of the Embassy code room. He referred in this connection
to the NSA damage evaluation dealt with in Tab C of the June 1 "Preliminary
Damage Assessment" which had just been received from the USIB Security Conanittee.
Mr. Coyne thought it regrettable that the State Department security people in
Moscow had cut the cables upon discovery of the microphone and related in-
stallations. Mr. Clifford agreed, recalling that when he arst learned of the
development from Mr. Coyne he urged that efforts he made to keep the discovered
items in place for the time being. Mr. Coyne said that this was urged on the
State Department but certain State Department officials thought the Board was
getting into operations, and a cable went out to Ambassador Kohler instructing
him to proceed and to lodge a protest with the Soviet government.

Mr. Coyne called Board members' attention to the summary of U. S.
Ambassadors' assessments (appearing in the USIB's Security Committee report)
which discounted the likelihood of damage to the U. S. from the technical
penetration of the Embassy.

Mr. Coyne pointed to the 1962 report of the Soviet defector who informed
CIA (which in turn informed the State Department) that the Embassy in Moscow
was bugged at various strategic locations. Mr. Coyne said that he had recently
asked State Department representatives what had been done on the basis of the
defector's 1962 report, and it appeared that no action had been taken by State
Department security technicians until recent digging operations were begun
following receipt of a report from a second Soviet defector early in 1964 that
microphones were in place in specific Embassy office locations. Mr. Coyne
also related the substance of his inquiries made of the State Department Chief
of Communications (Mr. Coffey) in the summer of 1963 when Khrushchev boasted to
Governor Harriman that he could produce a copy of a message which Ambassador
Kohler had sent to Washington regarding the U. S. position on Soviet pipe-line
negotiations with West Germany (Mr. Coffey's finding was to the effect that
no communications penetration could in fact be established).

IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
3-

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

Chairman Clifford expressed the view that there appeared to have been
raised in this discussion a fundamental question to which the Board might
well give its attent:lon 1.e., the overall attitude of the U. S. Government
toward counterintelligence, intelligence and the security of intelligence
matters. In this instance the Board had raised an important point in urging
that the penetration cables not be cut precipitously when discovered in the
Embassy, but the Board's urging was ignored. Mr. Clifford thought it appropriate
to determine just what forum does have cognizance in such important developments
as this one, 1. e., whether the USIB, or the Special 5412 Group, or other group,
has cognizance in these matters. Mr. Coyna read from NSC 5618 the policy re-
quirement that upon the discovery of listening devices, U. S. agencies are
: required to obtain high level determinations as to whether the devices should
be left in place for purposes of exploitation against the foreign intelligence
service involved.

Mr. Gray expressed concern about the possibility that the Moscow penetration
enabled the Soviets to learn what the U. S. was doing and about to do with regard
to Cuba in the Fall of 1962.

In answer to the Chairman's inquiry, Mr. Coyne reported that U. S. security
technicians do not today have a device capable of detecting a shielded cable
microphone imbedded 7 inches in the wall, as in the case of the 41 microphones
found in the U. S. Embassy, Moscow.

At 10:30 a.m. the Board meeting was joined by Mr. Bannerman of CIA
(Chairman of the USB Security Committee); Dr. Tordella, Deputy Director of NSA;
and Mr. Marvin Gentile, since March 1964, Director of the Office of Security,
U. S. Department of State. Mr. Clifford indicated the Board's interest in being
fully informed on the facts relating to the recent discovery of the penetration
in Moscow; the effectiveness of detection methods used at the Embassy previously
and those available at present; and the information which led to the recent
discoveries. Mr. Bannerman said that he could speak to the assessment of damage,
leaving to Mr. Gentile the discussion of the history and effectiveness of tests
to detect the presence of listening devices.

Referring to the USIB Security Committee's June 1 "Preliminary Damage
Assessment", Mr. Bannerman explained that Army, Navy and Air Force had conducted
interviews of personnel formerly assigned to the Embassy (now scattered) but
the inquiries were along the line of possible compromise of military attache type
of information, exclusive of the compromise of communications. On the other
hand, State Department interviews of personnel previously assigned at the Embassy
were made on the assumption that the Soviets had access to conversations and to
communications as well. (Army, Navy and Air Force are still in the process of
reviewing their old traffic in an effort to see whether their communications
were compromised.) Mr. Bannerman pointed to the State Department conclusion that
no damage to U. S. foreign policy can be detected as a result of the bugging of
our Embassy in Moscow. Mr. Bannerman pointed to the conclusion in the USIB
assessment to the effect that the Soviets did get information on operations,
and on military attache movements, and on the intelligence targets in which they
were interested. He pointed out that the agencies report that important decisions
were not discussed aloud, but in whispers or in the form of written notes.

Docld 2503
NW88327
Docld:34671888 Page 8
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
4
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

(Chairman Clifford thought it remarkable that such precautions would have
been consistently maintained over such a long period of 11 years.)

In answer to Mr. Coyne's inquiry, Mr. Bannerman said that the Security
Committee's preliminary assessment had been "noted" by the USIB and USIB had
approved the recommendations, with the request that the Security Committee
complete a final assessment.

Mr. Bannerman said that it is most difficult to attempt to assess the
damage to U. S. interests resulting from the Moscow penetration. First is the
task of identifying information to which the Soviets may have obtained access.
The next task is to try and find instances in which Soviet reaction provides
evidence that a compromise of information was effected. Moreover, since this
was a Soviet intelligence operation, the information obtained by the intelligence
operators would not be passed on to Soviet political desks or to Soviet bloc
allies without attributing to some source other than the technical penetration.
Dr. Langer thought that, nevertheless, all such information obtained by technical
penetration of the U. S. Embassy would be reviewed and utilized where possible by the
Soviet government. Mr. Bannerman acknowledged that this would be the case, but he
emphasized the difficulty in observing and identifying Soviet reactions and actions
as being based on compromised U. S. information or communications. Dr. Land
expressed the view that it is dangerous to assume that our information' was not
compromised because we cannot observe specific Soviet reactions to such informa-
tion. Dr. Baker wondered whether the assessment of the 3 U. S. Ambassadors
that no damage was done is in essence a finding that intelligence is worthless,
is not needed, or is not used when it is obtained.

Chairman Clifford asked whether it is possible to relate compromised
U. S. information to Soviet actions with respect to Cuba. Mr. Bannerman referred
to the USIB Security Committee assessment on that point. Mr. Gentile pointed
out that by 1962 an acoustically shielded conference room and an electronically
shielded code room had been inscalled in the Embassy, and in addition the
practice has always been followed of writing out sensitive information. Mr. Gray
thought that the State Department assessment referred to in the Conclusions of
the USIB Security Committee report should be amended by adding to the effect
that "or, if the information was compromised, it was used by the Soviets with
such skill as to conceal whether in fact the information was compromised".

Mr. Pace wondered whether information obtained by the Soviets through
this technical penetration of our Embassy might not have resulted in the
Soviet identification of any defectors serving as intelligence agents for the
U. S. Mr. Bannerman said that this is a possibility in the Penkovsky case,
and CIA is awaiting the assessment reports of other agencies in order to study
this possibility further.

Mr. Pace asked whether the USIB, in accepting other agencies' own
assessments of whether their information had been compromised, was not in
effect accepting self-serving statements rather than performing an abstract
assessment, Mr. Bannerman said that each agency is considered to have the
greatest competence in assessing the extent of any compromise of its own
information.

NW 185
Docld 2503
B
NW 88192
Docld:34671888 Page 9
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
-5
TOP SECRET

NW 185
Doeld 2603
NW 88192
Docld:34671888 Page 10
TOP SECRET

Mr. Gentile informed the Board that the Embassy in Moscow was first
designed and built as an apartment house. Then in 1952 it was made available
to the U. S. for lease and occupancy as an Embassy building and apartment
living quarters. The U. S. accepted the building, and in 1952 the Soviets
added three top floors for use as Embassy offices. During the construction
period no U. S. technical inspections were possible because access to the..
construction work was limited to cursory inspections. For a period of 3 weeks
in March 1953 no Americans were given access to the building, and the con-
struction area on the top three floors was covered by plywood screens said to
have been put up to hasten the drying of plaster. The U. S. occupied the
Embassy on May 1, 1953, under the lease. Since that time there have been 27
inspections in an effort to locate listening devices. Plaster was chipped in
spots, floors were taken up in some locations, and various searches made short
of tearing rooms apart all without locating any devices. Meanwhile, over
the years Embassy personnel have been briefed and cautioned on the assumption
that the Embassy was penetrated by listening devices.

On June 20, 1962, Mr. Gentile continued, his predecessors in the State
Department Office of Security received from CIA the Soviet defector's 1962
report that the Embassy was bugged. This was made known to the State Department
resident security technician who went to Moscow 3 months later. There is nothing
in the files to indicate if any instructions went out or any action taken on
the basis of the 1962 defector report. There is no indication that the
Ambassador was informed.

In February 1964 the State Department resident security technician in
the Moscow Embassy returned to Washington and there was discussed the question
of the possible total destruction of an Embassy room in an effort to find
listening devices. In March 1964 the State Department Security people received
the report given by the second Soviet defector, pinpointing locations of con-
cealed microphones. Accordingly, the destruction of one room was authorized
by the Department of State Security Office (Room 10008 on the top floor) and
on April 23, 1964, the first of the 41 microphones was uncovered.

Mr. Coyne asked about the cutting of the cables. Mr. Gentile said that
this occurred two days after the discovery of the first microphone on April 23.
The decision was made in the Security Office of State, by the chief technician
in Moscow. Mr. Clifford asked whether it had occurred to responsible officials
to consider the possibility of exploiting the microphones found. Mr. Gentile
said that in the first place it was assumed that the Soviets had spotted the
technical men who were sent in by State Department, and that the noise of the
Jackhammmer and other digging operations had alerted the Soviets that the dis-
coveries had been made. Moreover, the microphones discovered were not con-
sidered unique finds requiring any unique technical study. Moreover, as part
of standing operations procedure, State notified the CIA and other interested
agencies immediately on making the first find, although this notification was
not made at the Secretary level. It was decided that exploitation was not
feasible.

The decision to cut the cables, however, was made by State Department,
Mr. Gentile said. In answer to Mr. Murphy's question he said that State
Department desk officers and the Ambassadors were told, but their judgments
were not sought as to the matter of cutting the cables.
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
-6.
TOP SECRET

Mr. Bannerman stated that the prescribed procedure was followed on
the question of possible exploitation. State Department people discussed this
with counterintelligence officers in CIA (including Mr. Angelton) and it was
decided that no exploitation was possible because the Soviets had undoubtedly
learned of the discovery of the microphones uncovered by extensive and noisy
digging operations.

Mr. Gentile said that much remains to be done, including (1) a complete
technical assessment of the fidelity of the Soviet devices (2) completion of
the examination of the North Wing of the Embassy, and (3) the initiation of a
search of the South Wing.

Mr. Bannerman observed that a key factor is the tremendous disadvantage
to the U. S. resulting from Soviet control of the construction of buildings to
be occupied by U. S. personnel.

As for the level of Soviet capability evidenced by the quality and kind
of microphones discovered, Dr. Tordella said that they are better than the ones
we have for this particular kind of installation.

Dr. Tordella expressed the opinion that the Moscow installation resulted
in a compromise of our encrypted communications, particularly if you accord to
the Soviets the capability of the U. S., U. K., and Germans. From 1953-1959
State used the MCR code machine (identical to that used by U. S. military attaches,
1953-1954) which is vulnerable to audiosurveillance which can detect the plain
text being printed by the machine. Also the MCB machine could be cryptographically
reconstructed by the opposition. (In 1948 an Army code room Sergeant defected
under circumstances indicating that he had photographed materials which would
have given complete information on the machine.) So, from 1953-1959 we must
assume the Soviets were capable of reconstructing the machine, and also of
reading the plain text from which the encryptions were made. All incoming and
outgoing encrypted traffic of the Embassy could have been read, as well as
traffic of other Iron Curtain U. S. posts using this system. From 1959-196.2
(before installation: the electronically shielded code room in the Embassy)
all Confidential encyphered material was subject to audio attack. Secret traffic
was vulnerable until 1961, as was Top Secret until 1960 when the use of l-time
pads was required. After December 1962 (when the electronically shielded room
was installed), according to tests run by NSA, there was no compromise of
Embassy traffic through audio or electromagnetic penetrations. The screen
grill antenna found in the wall of the North Wing of the Embassy, with coaxial
cables attached, probably served as a Soviet means of electronic intercept of
emanations from the U. S. l-time teleprinter in the Embassy (and although this
effort was frustrated in October 1960 when such machines were not permitted
to be used at U. S. posts behind the Iron Curtain, that rule was lifted with
respect to our Embassy in the USSR when the acoustically shielded room was
installed in Moscow.)

As for the microwave energy signal which has been beamed at the Embassy
building at least since 1957, Dr. Tordella believes that the purpose of the
signal is to harrassus.
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART

NW 185
Docld 2503
Page
NW 88132
Docld:34671888 Page 11
-7-
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

Ar 12:05 p.m. Messrs. Tordella, Bannerman and Gentile departed the
Board mesing with the thanks of the Chairman for their assistance.

Following lunch, the Board resumed its meeting at 1:00 p.m. at which
time Mr. R. J. Smith of CIA (Deputy to Mr. Ray Cline, Deputy DCI for Intelligence)
presented a briefing of the situation in Laos, South Vietnam, North Vietnam,
Cambodia, Malaysia, and Indonesia. (Chairman Clifford left the meeting in
response to a telephone call from the President.)

Mr. Smith outlined some CIA views concerning intentions and capabilities
of the Chinese Communists: (1) the Chicoms hope to see China become a center
of Communist authority world-wide, setting policy even for the USSR (2) the
Chicom leaders presently wish to avoid high risk actions (3) Communist China
has not achieved a nuclear production capability (4) of the 15 SAM sites in
China, only 4 are operational, and the others lack equipment, and (5) the
Chicom Air Force is deteriorating and replacements are slow in coming.
believes that. Communist China will encourage Hanoi to keep high level of pressure
going in Laos and South Vietnam; will continue efforts to subvert Malaysia; will
avoid hostilities with the U. S.; will avoid a formal breach with the USSR, pre-
ferring to erode Soviet influence around the world; and will continue to support
militant elements of Communist Parties in Africa, Latin America and Southeast
Asia.

In answer to a question by Mr. Pace, Mr. Smith expressed the opinion
that if the U. S. moved against Hanoi in the Air, the Chicoms would not react.

Mr. Smith also mentioned briefly the situations in Cuba and in India.
Mr. Smith concluded his presentation and left the Board meeting at 2:05 p.m.

At 2:10 the Board meeting was joined by Colonel Steakley, Director of
the Joint Reconnaissance Center of the JCS. Colonel Steakley described in some
detail the various COMINT, ELINT, Telemetry, and photographic collection
programs which are carried out through peripheral and overflight aircraft missions
under the monitorship of the JRC (including surface ship and submarine collection
of COMINT and ELINT along the China coast). Colonel Steakley referred to the
ELINT collection (plus some COMINT and telemetry) through RA-3B peripheral
flights in the Artic; C-130 peripheral flights for COMINT collection in the
Pacific, European and Cuban areas, including KC-135 missions near the Soviet
border; photographic missions (BOW TIE) flown with RF-101 aircraft by Chinat
pilots over coastal areas of Southeast China; covert photo collection on MATS
(C-97 G) flights over Europe and Indonesia; C-135 telemetry collection missions
near the launch areas and impact areas involved in Soviet space and missile
activities; and collection of telemetry from satellites over Africa.

Colonel Steakley described the wain functions of the JRC as pertaining to
(1) monitoring of military reconnaissance programs (2) review and evaluation of
missions proposed by the military (3) coordination of reconnaissance operations
at the national level (4) U. S. and allied cooperation (5) monitoring of actual
reconnaissance operations (6) coordination of policies and procedures, and
(7) monitoring of special OPLANS.
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
Docid: 2603
NW-821
Docld:34671888 Page 12
-8
TOP SEDALT

NW 185
Doold 2603
NW 88192
Docld:34671888 Page 13
(
TOP SEGRET

In response to a query from Dr. Baker, Colonel Steakley acknoledged
that cur reconnaissance activity gives the Soviets "training" in detection and in
the development of countermeasures.

Mr. Coyne asked whether there is not considerable duplication of in-
telligence collection as a result of the multiplicity of reconnaissance missions
being flown in the same target areas. Colonel Steakley said that some
duplication results, but in any event a single ELINT mission will not always
pick up all the desired intelligence, whereas follow-on missions will pick up
emissions which might not have been encountered on the previous run.

A question was asked by Mr. Coyne about the JRC's working relationship
with the NRO. Colonel Steakley said that this is satisfactory, even though
not documented.

Dr. Baker asked whether the system is fast enough to accommodate urgent
intelligence requirements which might be formulated by non-military agencies,
calling for overflights of denied territory, for example. Colonel Steakley
said that this capability is adequate and he cited the example of the recent
Alaskan earthquake, photographs of which were delivered to Wachington within
15 hours after the request was made for them. In answer to a query by Dr. Baker
along this same line, Colonel Steakley said that the System is capable of
exercising straight-lime channel of command to meet intelligence requirement
which, e.g., the Secretary of Defense might suddenly need to have fulfilled
such as a carrier-based U-2 mission over a particular intelligence target all
of a sudden. Colonel Steakley expressed confidence that the JRC mechanism and
resources are such that suddenly-arising intelligence reconnaissance needs can
be met quickly.

Colonel Steakley's visit with the Board was completed and he departed
the meeting at 3:30 p.m.

In executive session (with Dr. Baker in the chair during Mr. Clifford's
absence) Board members considered and approved proposed letters from the
Chairman requesting that State, Defense, CIA and the DCI up-date and revise
the scope and coverage of their respective annual reports to the Board con-
cerning the conduct of their intelligence-related responsibilities.
letters were approved and subsequently dispatched by the Chairman.

These
At 3:55 p.m. Chairman Clifford returned from the President's office and
rejoined the Board meeting..

The Board meeting was joined at this point by the DCI, Mr. McCone; and
Messrs. Kirkpatrick, Fitzgerald, and Meyers of CIA. Chairman Clifford said that
the Board would appreciate hearing from the DCI concerning items of interest
to Board members as set out in the list previously provided to the DCI, as
well as any other matters which the DCI might wish to cover.

At the DCI's suggestion, Mr. Fitzgerald took up the subject of Cuba
which he had discussed previously at the meeting of the Board in April.
He reported the recent defection to the U. S. of a Cuban military officer who
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
10
TOP SECRET

NW 185
Docld 2503
TOP SECRET
has been attached to Castro's security service since Castro came to power,
and who is in the process of being interviewed concerning the structure of
Castro's intelligence organization (the defector being primarily knowledgeable
of Cuban external intelligence activities in other Latin American countries).

Mr. Fitzgerald said that there is still the problem of getting agent
photography out of Cuba for examination in the U. S. At present the photo-
graphs are delivered by agents inside Cuba to a friendly foreign diplomatic