JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 09/24/98:
Page: 1

AGENCY: PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER : 206-10001-10010
RECORDS SERIES : PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD MEETING
OF THE BOARD NOVEMBER 9, 1962
DATE: 11/09/62
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR NOVEMBER 9, 1962 MEETING
SUMMARY OF NOVEMBER 9, 1962 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88132
Docld:34671885 Page 1

206-10001-10010

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

MEETING OF THE BOARD

NOVEMBER 9, 1962

-106-10001-10010

NW21
Docld:34671885 Page 2

TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MODTING OF NOVEBER 9, 1062
ITEM | TIME | SUBJECT
:---:|:---:|:---
1. | 9:00-9:30 | The Chairman's Time & Executive Session
2. | 9:30 - 10:15 | Preliminary Review by Board Staff of Recent Cuban Developments Mr. Patrick Coyne
3. | 10:15 - 10:30 | Recent Discussions of Cuban Developments with the Defense Intelligence Agency and the National Reconnaissance Office Mr. Gordon Gray
4. | 10:30 - 11:00 | Recent Photographid Intelligence Acquisitions Mr. Artimus Lundahl, NPIC
5. | 11:00-12:00 | Defense Intelligence Agency Wativities Including DIA's Role in the Cuban Situation Lt. Gen. Joseph Carroll, USAF, Director, DIA
6. | 12:00-12:30 | State Department Views on Recent Intelligence Developments Relating to Cuba Mr. Thomas Hughes, Acting Director, Intelligence and Research, Department of State
7 & 8. | 1:30 - 1:45 | Status Report on CIA's Covert Operations Mr. Robert Murphy /
9. | 1:45-2:15 | Review of the Recent Series of Soviet Nuclear Tests Dr. Albert Wheelon Office of Scientific Intelligence, CIA Dr. Donald Chamberlan Office of Scientific Intelligence, CIA
10. | 2:15 - 2:30 | Executive Session

DC1=11:00
DIA=1130

No Board book
for this meeting.

NW 88192
Docld:34671885 Page 3

ITEM | TIME | SUBJECT
:---:|:---:|:---
11. | 2:30-1:00 | Discussions with the Director of Central Intelligence Including Review of U. S. Intelligence Activities Relating to the Cuban and Berlin Situations Mr. John Me Cone
12. | 4:00-4:15 | Discussions with the President's Special Assistant for National Security Affairs
13. | 4:15 - 4:30 | Board Review of U.S. Intelligence Activities in Italy, Spain and the United Kirundon Mr. Coyne
14. | 4:30 - 5:00 | Status Ropert on Implementation of Board Recommendations Mi. Ash
15. | 5:00 - ED | Discussion of Board Panel Assignments and Future Board Business Board Personnel mly

Due to absence from the country, Board members Langer
and Pace will be unable to attend this meeting.

NW
Docld:34671885 Page 4

THE WHITE HOUSE.
WASHINGTON
This document consists of 12 pages
No. of 42 Copies, Series

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Board Meeting of November 9, 1962

The Board convened in meeting at 9:00 a.m., on November 3,
1962, at the offices of the Board in the Executive Office Building.
Dr. Baker presided as Acting Chairman in the absence of Dr. Killian.
Board members Gray, Doolittle, Murphy and Clifford were present as
were Mr. Coyne and the writer. (Messrs. Pace and Langer were out
of the country at the time of this meeting. Illness prevented Dr.
Land's attendance.)

Dr. Baker informned the Board that Messrs. Coyne and Ash had
done a unique assembly of material for the Board's use in considering
the intelligence aspects of the Soviet missiles buildup in Cuba.
Dr. Baker expressed the view that the materials which had been
assembled are far too complicated for the Board to consider in the
course of only one day, and therefore the Board would look to
Mr. Coyne and Mr. Gray for selective reporting to the Board con-
cerning the highlights of the coverage which had been accomplished
thus far in the Board's review of the Cuba situation.

Dr. Baker observed that the conflict involving Cuba is an
intelligence conflict. The government does not know for sure the
positions of anti-aircraft artillery units which are protecting
the SA-2 sites in Cuba. Furthermore, intelligence is lacking on
such elementary things as the support facilities which serve the
SA-2 installations. Based on the intelligence which has been ob-
talned, it appears that except for Moscow and Leningrad the island
of Cuba 1.s now equipped with the best air defense system in the
world. It is possible that Cuba is now on the verge of insuring
against invasion by reason of its possession of an assembly of the
most dangerous armaments which have heretofore been collected in
an area of that size. In the UN the United States is discussing
inspection and surveillance proposals and positions which in Dr.
Baker's view are a century out of date. Dr. Baker said that he
does not know how much the President is aware of these things, but
there is a serious proposal being discussed which would contemplate
one or two inspections a month, whereas we well know that within
72 hours there can be made operational a most dangerous offensive
capability.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

NW
Docld:34671885 Page 5

Mr. Murphy wondered what specifically had caused the decision
to be made to transfer from CIA to SAC the responsibility for re-
connaissance of Cuba. Mr. Mphy thought that an understanding of
the reasons for this shift of responsibility is important because
the Board itself seemed to have been oblivious to developments
which were of such a nature as to warrant the stepped-up coverage
by SAC. Mr. Gray's comment on this was to the effect that he had
noted an uncertainty in the past with regard to whether the problem
of Cuba had been removed from the Board's area of responsibility.
Mr. Gray recalled remarks by the Chairman at a Board meeting last
summer indicating that the Cuba situation was being looked at else-
where in Government. Therefore, Mr. Gray thought that if in fact
the Board's responsibility extends to Cuba this should be made clear
for the benefit of the Board. In Mr. Gray's opinion if the Board
in fact had such a responsibility, then the Board should have been
addressing itself to the implications of public statements such as
those being made by Senator Keating and others, and particularly
the statement by Senator Keating on October 10, 1962, that ballistic
missile installations were being constructed in Cuba.

Acting Chairman Baker informed the Board that he had confirmed
with the Chairman that the Chairman's remarks at the last summer's
Board meeting were intended to convey that it was only in the
NSC. 5412/2 area that Cuba matters where being handled outside the
purview of the Board.

Continuing, Mr. Gray said that it was a matter of personal
regret to him that the public statements by Senators Keating,
Humphry and others had not served to flag the situation.

Mr. Coyne said that following that line of reasoning he him-
self could be said to have been at fault. Mr. Coyne went on to
poir.t out in this connection that Senator Keating and others were.
speaking from the benefit of Executive Branch briefings which they
had received, including General Carter's briefing of the Republican
Policy Committee. In any case, the Senators had only information
which was in the possession of the Executive Branch. Insofar as
this information was based on foreign intelligence acquisitions,
Mr. Coyne pointed out that all of the U.S. foreign intelligence
agencies are under instruction and have an obligation to furnish
the Board with all significant information derived from the
foreign intelligence effort, and if such instructions and under-
standings were not in effect the Board would be in the position
of having to dig out the intelligence information which the
agencies are obligated to provide to the Board on a systematic
basis. In the case of the developing Cuban situation, however,
Mr. Coyne pointed out that a top level decision was made to give
limited distribution of intelligence information on Cuba and the
Board was excluded from those elements of the government which
were designated to receive it.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

NW
Docld:34671885 Page 6

a periodic regional intelligence bulletin on Southeast Asia,
and that consideration is being given to issuing similar:
regional intelligence bulletins for consumers in other areas.
He described this particular recommendation as being a "good
suggestion."

At this point Mr. Clifford, reverting to the discussion
on the Hanson Baldwin matter, asked whether a separate investi-
gative unit is being established as recommended by the Board,
in lieu of the referral of leaks for investigation by the FBI.
Mr. McCone responded that this matter is still under considera-
tion; that in his own office he is prepared to set up such a
unit; that he and the President feel this action must be taken;
but that there is growing concern in some quarters that the
creation of such a unit might ultimately lead to the establish-
ment of some kind of internal Gestapo.

Mr. McCone next turned to the subject of Cuba. He said.
that in late July there was first witnessed an increased tempo
of Soviet bloc shipments to Cuba, and by August the rate of
shipments had more than doubled. On August 10, 1962 there was
held a meeting of Principals (the President not participating)
to discuss Cuban operations which had taken place during the
preceding months of 1962. Up to that time there had been an
exploratory intelligence effort primarily aimed at providing
a basis for deciding what covert actions could be taken
against the Castro regime. The results of this intelligence
effort had been reflected in reports appearing in the Central
Intelligence Bulletin and in items which were set forth in the
Presidential Check List. At that time, Mr. McCone said, he
analyzed the developments in Cuba as indicating 1) the establish-
ment of a sophisticated SIGINT operation to be directed against
our space activities at Camp Canaveral, (2) the establishment
of a comprehensive air defense system, or (3) the introduction
of a MRBM capability, or possibly all three. However, no one
shared Mr. McCone's feeling that the Soviet activities in Cuba
were directed toward the establishment of a ballistic missile
capability. On the contrary, the Department of State and the
Office of National Estimates within the CIA considered that such
action by the Russians would be a departure from established
Soviet policy.

Mr. McCone said that throughout August a careful watch
was maintained with respect to developments in Cuba, and in
late August the construction of SAM sites was detected.
By August 23, when Mr. MeCone left the country (on his honey-
moon), there had been obtained photographic evidence of the
construction of seven SAM sites together with evidence of
extreme security measures being taken with respect to the
unloading of ships at Cuban ports. These developments, Mr.
McCone related, gave rise to considerable worry on his part,

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via BYLLIAN
Control System

NW 88132
Docld:34671885 Page 7

and prior to his departure from the country, on August 23,
he took the occasion on August, 21, 22, and 23 to express his
worry to the President and to the Secretary of Defense.
Mr. McCone acknowledged that he had no positive evidence to
support his concern, but he reasoned that the extensive air
defense buildup which was underway in Cuba had as its immediate
purpose the denial of the surveillance by the United States of
the Soviet missile buildup in Cuba. The U-2 photography which
was being obtained reflected that 26 SA-2 sites would be
installed in Cuba. Mr. McCone observed that while the photo-
graphy obtained at the time did not provide evidence of missile
sites, a current review of that photography indicates the
presence of tents and some construction equipment. Mr. Mc-
Cone said that when he left the country on August 23, the
instructed that a daily CIA bulletin be initiated at once with
respect to Cuban developments, and he initiated issuance of
this reporting after consultation with the US.IB.
an incident was created by the U-2 which "wandered" over Soviet
territory, and also when the U-2 was shot down over Communist
China on September 8, these incidents caused Mr. McCone to be
concerned. Nevertheless, overflights were ordered. It developed,
however, that from September 17 to September 20, weather con-
ditions would not permit the overflights of Cuba.

When in September
At about that time the Special NSC 5412/2 Group, as well
as the CIA, became convinced that some risk was involved in
the conduct of U-2 operations over Cuba. For that reason,
Mr. McCone said, the flights which were scheduled were of a
peripheral nature. Four flights were authorized and flowm
in late September and in early October, but because of their
peripheral or semi-peripheral character they did not cover the
western area of Cuba. Mr. McCone recalled that in early..
October there had been seen refugee reports concerning mysterious
shipments being transported over Cuban roads, and there were
other things of this nature reported by refugees.

As reflected in the SNIE dated September 19, 1962, Mr.
McCone said that the USIB dismissed the possibility that MRBMs
were being introduced into Cuba, and this view was based on
the belief that such introduction would confront the USSR with
so many difficulties that the action would not be undertaken.
Mr. McCone said that he was in France when he received a sum-
mary of the SNIE, and he disagreed with its conclusicas because
he could not see why the Soviets were establishing such a
comprehensive air defense system in Cuba unless this was being
done to shield the island against U. S. surveillance and to
protect the conduct of some clandestine operation.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via BYLIAN
Control System

NW 8897
Docld:34671885 Page 8

became greater. But even if this flight had been conducted,
in Mr. McCone's opinion there would not at that time have
been obtained information of a more convincing nature than
was later obtained as a result of the October 14 mission.
Mr. MoCone said that on September 7 he made a recommendation
that more frequent flights be conducted, and it continues to
be Mr. McCone's view that there should have been more in-
tense U-2 coverage during September.

Mr. Clifford asked why and from where was there concern
over a possible U-2 incident involving Cuba. Mr. McCone said
that this view was held within the NSC 5412 Group and in CJA
as well. Mr. McCone said that he held a different view but
he was away at the time. He cited as a current example of
concern attaching to the possibility of U-2 incidents the fact
that today the Special Group considered a U-2 flight over the
China-India border, and great concern was expressed in the
Group because the mission would have to include an overflight
of Burma, and the prospect of the Burma overflight creating
another U-2 incident was a matter of considerable sensitivity
within the Group.

Mr. Clifford observed that while this concern might well
be understandable in the case of Burma, he was nevertheless
unable to understand why there should be a similar concern
about reaction to a U-2 incident which might arise with respect
to Cuba. Mr. McCone said that such concern with respect to
Cúba does not exist today and, as a matter of fact, on that
very day there were being conducted ten low-level and 3 U-2
missions against Cuba.

Mr. Clifford made the comment that he feared that the
Board might possibly be subjected to criticism in the light
of the fact that there was no photographic reconnaissance over
Cuba between September 5 and October 14, despite the DCI'S
own suspicions and the content of refugee reports with respect
to a Soviet missile buildup in Cuba.

Mr. Murphy inquired of Mr. McCone as to whether clandestine
agents are being successfully operated in Cuba. Mr. McCone.
answered by saying that there have been three rather ineffective
teams operating in Cuba with the principal objective of organizing
dissidence against the Castro regime rather than obtaining
intelligence. He said that there are approximately 40 third-
country agents plarted in various foreign embassies in Cuba, but
we obtained no hard intelligence from them regarding the military
buildup.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via BYLLIAN
Control Cystem

NW 88192
Docld:34671885 Page 9

could be reintroduced into Cuba as below-deck cargoes. Mr.
Clifford thought that it would be a good idea to continue our
surveillance in order to ascertain the destination of these
ships and the disposition made of the missiles, and Mr. Mc-
Cone said that we can probably track the ships into the
Black Sea and the Ealtic, but that we would not be able to
cover the unloading and transshipment of missiles into Soviet
ports.

Mr. Murphy wondered what had been the inspiration for
the commitment not to invade Cuba. Mr. McCone supposed that
this resulted from a Russian offer to do certain things in
return for things which they asked for.

Mr. Clifford asked whether it is possible for the United
States to develop intelligence sources in Cuba which would.
relieve our dependence upon photographic intelligence. Mr.
McCone said that this is difficult to do primarily because
Castro had instituted a police state in Cuba and, as an example
of this, Mr. McCone cited the practice of the Castro regime
in following a procedure whereby in effect the ration cards
of the Cuban people serve as identification cards. Mr. McCone
said that previously eight or nine teams of trained agents
had been introduced into Cuba since April. Three of these
teams remain in Cuba, the rest have been either killed or
came back from their mission. Mr. McCone said that we have
not been able to obtain much intelligence from these three
teams because their principal activity has been to maintain
their survival.

Mr. Clifford said that he found it hard to understand
why the United States has not been able to develop intelligence
sources within Cuba, a country situated only 90 miles away
from the United States, and one with which we have enjoyed
the friendliest relations for 60 years. Mr. McCone said that
approximately 2000 Cubans are coming out of Cuba every week
and at that rate practically all of the responsible Cubans
have left the island. Mr. McCone said after the Bay of Pigs
invasion an intelligence "paralysis" set in for a time.
Then, in December 1961, the President and the Attorney General
and Mr. McCone had discussions leading to the instigation
of some operations in Cuba. Mr. McCone said that he was
aghast to learn at that time there were no refugee interroga-
tions being conducted, and so the interrogation center was
established at Opalaka. He said that within CIA a 500-man
task force was set up to work on the Cuba problem and dis-
appointing results have been obtained. Mr. McCone said that

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via DYEMAN
Control System

Docld:34671885 Page 10

he is now concerned and he has had under review the question
as to whether too much dependence is being placed on refugees
as sources of information, and consideration is being given as
to whether it may be necessary to send U. S. citizens into
Cuba as intelligence agents. He said that we are not getting.
intelligence on Cuba through conventional means. Mr. Murphy
observed that this is a salient point of interest to the
Board. Mr. McCone repeated his concern which he had earlier
expressed that even with the Soviet missiles removed, the
Castro regime will continue to be a center of insurgency
for Latin America, as indicated by the fact that during the
recent days of the Cuban crisis orders were issued from
Within Cuba for the initiation of insurgency action in other
Latin American countries.

At this point Mr. McCone's visit with the Board terminated
and the Board recessed for lunch.

At 1:45 p.m., General Carroll, Director of the Defense
Intelligence Agency, joined the Board meeting. General Carroll
said that in an attempt to anticipate the specific matters
in which the Board might be interested, he had prepared some
materials regarding the Cuban situation over the period from
last summer up to October 14 and thereafter. He said that
the extreme pressures which had prevailed, and the requirement
for daily presentations to top level officials concerning the
progress of the Cuban situation, had made it impossible for
him to complete a detailed survey up to this time, but that
such a survey was in process within the DIA.

General Carroll began by describing briefly the role of
the DIA'S CIIC which was responsible for the coordination of
intelligence regarding the Cuban situation. In July 1962, the
CIIC reported on the increased Soviet shipping into Cuba.
In August, reports were disseminated with regard to increasing
introduction of Soviet materials. On September 8, the CIIC
reported that the scope of the Soviet bloc assistance to Cuba
suggested motives going beyond the lending of support and
encouragement to the Castro regime.
On August 15, in an effort
to supply guidance and requirements for photographic recon-
naissance, the DIA asked that the NPIC conduct a study and
review of photographic intelligence which had previously been
obtained with respect to three areas in Cuba. On August 17,
photographic evidence indicated that SA-2 equipment was
located in two of the three areas, although there was no
evidence of deployment as yet. The next photographic mission
flown on August 29 disclosed the presence of two SA-2 sites
and the presence of a third site at Banes. Moreover, a
study of the photographic evidence concerning the SA-2 sites,

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handla via BYELIAN TOP SECRET
Control Cystem

Docld:34671885 Page 11
