JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 09/24/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER: 206-10001-10001
RECORDS SERIES: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM
TO :
TITLE: MEETING OF THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
ADVISORY BOARD ON SEPTEMBER 12-13, 1963
DATE: 09/12/63
PAGES: 33
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR SEPTEMBER 12 AND 13, 1963 MEETING
SUMMARY OF SEPTEMBER 12 AND 13, 1963 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/98 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS
:

NW 88132
Docld:34671876 Page 1

2025 Release under the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED:

206-10001-10001

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

MEETING OF THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
ADVISORY BOARD on SEPTEMBER 12 - 1.3, 1963

206-16001-1000

NW 186
Docld-2491
NWpje21
Docld:34671876 Page 2

TOP SECRET

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD.
AGENDA FOR MEETINGS OF SEPTEMBER 12 - 13, 1963.
ITEM TIME SUBJECT

September 12, 1963
1 9:00- 11:00 The Chairman's Time
2 Administrative Announcements
Counterintelligence and Counterespionage:
Dunlap espionage case at NSA
Defection to USSR of former NSA em--
ployee Hamilton
3 Damage to U.S. classified informatior:
and intelligence techniques resulting
from recent Soviet espionage operations
in West Germany, Sweden and the U.K.
4 COMSEC developments involving USSR.
Alsop article on CIA and Defense
Intelligence capabilities for detecting
violations of the Limited Test Ban Treaty
Photo reconnaissance satellite developments
* Highlights of intelligence community reports
to White House in response to earlier Board
recommendations
: Report of Clifford Panel

11:00 - 12:00 Intelligence Community Capabilities for Detecting
Violations of the Limited Test Ban Treaty
Dr. Doyle Northrup, Technical Director,
Air Force Technical Application Center

3 12:00 - 12:15 Executive Session
4 12:15 - 1:00 Lunch - The White House Mess
5 1:00-1:45 Discussions with Director, National Security
Agency
Lt. General Gordon Blake, USAF

6. 1:45 - 2:45 Counterintelligence Programs of CIA
Mr. JamesAngelton, CIA
Rocca, Counteruntcllymane Stofof.
Mr. Rocca,

7. 2:45 - 3:15 Executive Session
8 3:15 - 4:15 Status Report on the Organization and Programs
of the National Reconnaissance Office
Dr. Brockway MacMillan, Director, NRO

9. 4:15 - 4:45 Review of SIGINT and Related Intelligence
Activities in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and the U.K.
Dr. Baker

guill be latest taken mpat Round Ty TOP SECRET
CA i

Docid:2491
NWP322
DocId:34671876 Page 3

TOP SECRET-
ITEM TIME SUBJECT

10. 4:45 - 5:45 Consideration of Revised SIGINT Report of
Board's Communications Panel
Dr. Baker

11. 5:45 - 6:00 Status Report on Covert Action Operations
Murphy-Gray-Langer Panel

12. 6:00 - 6:15 Status Report on State Department Intelli-
gence Activities.
Murphy Panel

September 13, 1963

13. 9:00 9:30 The Chairman's Time

14. 9:30 10:15 Covert Action and Intelligence Operations
Kelating to Cuba
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, CIA

15. 10:15 - 12:15 Discussion with the Director of Central
Intelligence
Mr. John Me Cone

16. 12:15 1:00 Lunch - The White House Mess

17. 1:00 - 1:30 Discussion with the President's Special
Assistant for National Security Affairs
Mr. McGeorge Bundy

18. 1:30 - 2:00 Executive Session

19. 2:00 - 6:00 Preparation of Draft Report to be Submitted to
the President at a Later Date, Following Appro-
priate Review and Coordination with the Board
Members.

* not taken with out
Board Inty

Docld 2491
NW 88182
Docld:34671876 Page 4

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
TOP SECRET
September 19, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
SUBJECT: Meeting of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board
September 12-13, 1963.

At 9:00 a.m., September 12, 1963, the Board began a two day meeting i
in the Board's offices, Executive Office Building Present were Board
member's Clifford, Pace, Doolittle, Baker, Langer, Murphyland/Gray; and
also present were Messrs. Coyne and Ash.

In executive session, Chairman Clifford recalled that at the last
meeting the Board discussed ways and means of increasing its effectiveness,
and it had been agreed that ample time would be allotted for the discussion
of subjects covered throughout Board meetings. At this morning's session"
two hours had been set aside, the Chairman announced, for discussion of the
vartous subject matters referred to in the first item on the agenda.

Turning to some administrative matters, inc, Cli made reference to
Mr. Coyne's August 5 memorandum regarding a request made to the Special
Counsel to the President for guidance to Foard members in complying with
newly-revised Federal legislation governing conflicts of interest, and
revised regulations calling for the submission of statements of financial
Interest (Board members having already submitted the latter some time ago
in compliance with the previous law and Presidential instructions). The
Chairman asked Mr. Ash to summarize the memorandum just received by Mr. Coyne
from Assistant Special Counsel White under, date of September 10, 1963,
suggesting the procedure which should now be followed under the new law.

NW 185
Docld 2491
NW 824
Docld:34671876 Page 5
TOP SECRET

NW 185
Docid:2491
Page 5
NW 88192
Docld:34671876 Page 6
TOP SECRET

The Board meeting was joined at this point by
Raymond G. Rocca (substituting for Mr. James Angleton of CIA)
for a briefing of Board members on CIA's counterintelligence
program.

Mr. Rocca began his briefing with the statement that
CIA does not have the entire world-wide responsibility
for counterintelligence (CI). To illustrate this point,
he exhibited a chart dated September 1962 entitled "U.S.
Organization for Counterintelligence" showing the various
elements of the numerous U. S. departments and agencies whose
functions and responsibilities bear some relationship to
counterintelligence Within CIA itself the CI function is
compartmented under the Deputy DCI for Plans. The headquarters
staff consists of 85 officers and 66 clerical personnel
(although there is a large number of CIA headquarters personnel
assigned to other intelligence activities which are related
to CIA's CI programs). At CIA stations overseas, CI. functions
are performed by various CIA personnel in such areas as Penetration,
Provocation, Double Agents, Technical Surveillances Protective
CI Services, Interrogations, and Deception.

Mr. Rocca stated that studies and recommendations made
by General Doolittle some 10 years ago had a great deal to do
with the fact that there is a separation in CIA of the handling
of CI activities and positive espionage operations
30
TOP SECRET
30

NW 185
Docld:2491
NW889
Docld:34671876 Page 7
TOP SECRET

It was emphasized by Mr. Rocca that the CI program of
CIA is directed against the Soviet bloc espionage apparatus which
is operating against the United States, and the primary objective D
of the CI effort is to obtain intelligence concerning Soviet
bloc attempts to effect espionage penetrations of the United
States. Mr. Rocca also explained to the Board that within
CIA the responsibility for personnel security and physical
Security rests with the CIA Office of Security which is located
In the area of the Deputy DCI for Support, whereas the CE
program is located in the area of the Deputy DCI for Plans.

It became apparent in the discussion with Mr. Rocca
that Board members were primarily interested in the nature
and effectiveness of CIA personnel security programs (in.com-
parison to the NSA system which did not result in an identification
co Sergeant Dunlap during the three years which he acted as a
Soviet agent while employed in a sensitive area at NSA head
quarters). Accordingly, Mr. Rocca received a number of
questions from Board members which involved responsibilities
of the CIA Security Office and which Mr. Roccá could not answer
on the basis of first-hand knowledge. Within this limitation,
however, Mr. Rocca endeavored to be of assistance to the Board
in response to various members! questions which he answered
to the effect that (1) efforts to uncover a "Dunlap" in CIA
would involve the personnel security and physical security protective
31
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
measures administered by CIA's. Office of Security whose programs
include thorough background investigations and the use of
polygraph interviews, (2) the identification of a "Dunlap" in
CIA might also result from the CIA'S CI program carriedon
outside the United States in an effort to cover foreign inteir
ligence efforts to penetrate the United States, (3) re-investigations
Mr Rocéa
of CIA personnel are conducted at 5-year intervals
said that he would have to refer to the CIA Security Office questions
as to whether all CIA personnel are polygraphed and whether
they are periodically re-polygraphed, (4) the best hope of
successful.CI coverage of Soviet bloc penetration efforts i13
the inducement and wise exploitation of defectors, (5) the
objective of Soviet bloc espionage penetration efförts is to
"go for the jugglar vein," that is, to find and use people who
are in a position to produce valuable information "in the clear he clear mout
thereby overcoming the problem of obtairing such information
from communications channels which are increasingly safeguarded
by encryption and other protective measures, (6) although the
United States has made some efforts to use blackmail against
Soviet bloc personnel for CI and intelligence purposes, with
some success, these efforts have failed insofar as Soviet
personnel are concerned and (7) the key to improving the
effectiveness of CIA'S CI effort is not a larget budget, but
the obtaining of CI people having the specialized knack required
and there is also a need for common training of all U.S. Government
32
34
TOP SECRET
NW 185
Docld:2491
NWB827
DocId:34671876 Page 8

NW 185
Docld:2491
Page 8
NW 88132
Docld:34671876 Page 9
TOP SECRET

personnel overseas in order that they may have adequate aware
ness of the nature of the Soviet penetration threat.

In answer to Mr. Coyne's question, Mr.Rocca said that
although there is no evidence of over-all penetration of
U. S. Government agencies, we must assume that such penetrations
are being effected, and we should recognize that the size and
complexity of our Governmental organization and the members
of departments and agencies which are targets for Soviet bloc
penetration efforts make us "a sitting duck."

Upon Mr. Rocca's departure at 3:30 PM。,the Board resumed
in executive session。

Referring to Mr. Rocca's appearance before the Board,
/
Chairman Clifford said it was apparent that the Board had been
hearing from a representative of the wrong, CIA area, as indicated
by the fact that Mr. Rocca had found it necessary to say that
most of the Board members questions fell in the area of com-
petence and knowledge of the CIA Security Office headed by Mr.
Bannerman, Mr. Gray agreed that Mr. Rocca had been unable to
respond to the questions in which the Board was particularly
interested。

Chairman Clifford referred to General Blake's appearance
before the Board earlier in the day, and Mr. Clifford pointed
out that the NSA Director had emphasized his confidence in the
thousands of good and reliable people who are employed at NSA。
33
TOP SECRET
33

NW 185
Docld:2491
NW 882
Docld:34671876 Page 10
12
TOP SECRET

Mr. Pace said that he was concerned about the heavy
investment of time and money on security without a program vớ
to make it clear what the threat is. The absence of publics
awareness of the threat has in Mr. Pacels opinion resulted
in a popular notion that the word "traitor" is no longerang
an opprobrious term in peace time, and the peace time impact
of treason is less than in war time. (General Doolittle observed
that the impact of treason is punishment by death, which is aumb
pretty firm impact.)

Next, the Board meeting was joined by Mr, Desmond Fitzsia
gerald (head of the CIA headquarters group concentrating on
Cuba) and his assistant, Mr. Bruce Clark, who were present to
brief the Board on covert actions being directed against the 000
Castro Covernment. Chairman Clifford asked the CIA representaшеск
tive to confine the discussion to 25 minutes in view of changesis
which had been required in the Board's schedule.

Mr. Clark informed the Board thật CIA has kept a close
watch on the situation in order to reach an estimate on the number
of Soviet forces in Cuba. Recently, he said, the Intelligence
community arrived at its estimate, and at the last Presidential
Press Conference the President had answered questions on the
subject, without getting into numbers, an approach which Mr.
Clark favored He said that CIA estimates there are from 6,000
to 10,000 Soviet personnel in Cuba, and the range of this estimate
is indicative of the difficulty of estimating the number of Soviet
ground forces The Soviets control and operate the SAM system
and related communications. There are no longer any Soviet
553
TOP SECRET

NW 185
Docld 2491
NWF881821
Docld:34671876 Page 11
TOP SECRET

ground units as such because they were removed along with the
missiles and IL-28's in: February. Cubans now control and
operate all the MIG aircraft although the Cubans continue to
receive training from Soviet pilots. Also the Cubans control
the helicopters and use them effectively in counterinsurgency
activity. Cruise missile sites and the KOMAR boats are
cperated by Cubans。

In air defense there are some 2,300 to 3,000 Soviet
military tech cians, but these personnel are not likely to
be the kind to bear arms against an insurrection in Cuba,
Mr. Clark stated。 It was on July 12 that Cubans began to
receive Soviet training in SAM site operations, and the
training will extend over 10 months. Therefore in April 1964,
Cubars will be prepared to take over the SAM sites and related
communications。 Some 300 Soviet personnel are estimated to
be engaged in training Cubans in the operation of 12 patrol
boats。 Some 800 Soviets are assigned to cruise missile
activities。 And Soviet ground forces number between 2,000 and
4,000, ir. Clark stated
0
The
As for communications, Mr. Clark said that all Soviet
naval links are down, but a Moscow-Havana link remains.
traffic on this scrambler circuit cannot be read by us,
although useful information is obtained through traffic analysis
procedures, and we do intercept Cuban VHF voice traffic.
TOP SECRET
54

TOP SECRET

In answer to a question from Mr. Clifford, Mr. Clark
said that there have been no substantial new arrivals of
Soviet personnel in Cuba. However, CIA does not get enough
information on loadings and urioadings from vessels because
of Cuban port security measures.

Mr. Clark said that from 3,000 to 4,000 Soviets would
be expected to conduct MAAG-type: operations in Cuba. In
answer to Dr. Langer's question, he said that CIA has no knowledge
of the number of Soviet agricultural advisers in Cuba.

Mr. Fitzgerald began his presentation with the remark
that this was a good day to be talking to the Board because
yesterday CIA was in a position to disseminate the best intelligence
report received to date on the situation in Cuba. He showed
Board members a copy of the agent report which he said had come
from a "high level Commandante" in the Cuban army who is a
reliable source. Mr. Fitzgerald also read from another CIA
agent report which quoted a source as saying that not even Fidel
Castro can enter Soviet military installations in Cuba, anyone
who reports knowledge of the level of Soviet forces in Cuba is
lying.

Mr. Fitzgerald said that the level of CIA resources directed
against Cuba includes 467 CIA personnel at headquarters and in
Miami, and 45 CIA personnel at CIA stations overseas There are
also 595 foreign sources, mostly Cubans.
NW 185
DocId:2491
NWP881621
Docld:34671876 Page 12
TOP SECRET
55

NW 185.
Docld:2491
age
NW 88192
Docld:34671876 Page 13
TOP SECRET

At the present time, Mr. Fitzgerald said, CIA has a
number of integrated covert operations which were approved by
the Standing Group and by the President。 The six-part program
18 a long-range one geared to a period of 18 months, and it
is within the framework of US. policy toward Cuba The elements.
of the integrated program are:
)
T
(1) Intelligence collection, both strategic and operational。
(2) Propaganda actions to stimulate resistance efforts and
sabotage within Cuba,
(3) Action to stimulate disaffection in the Cuban military f
which CIA considers is the strongest group which can be expected
"to successfully seek the overthrew of Castro.
(4) A program of economic denial on an increasing basis.
The Cuban economy is already suffering. Ninety percent of Cuban
industry uses U. S. machinery, and replacement parts cannot be
obtained from the United States。(Mr. Fitzgerald agreed with
Mn. Murphy that Cuba can look to Canada for needed materials.)

Mr. Clifford asked Mr. Fitzgerald who is responsible for
the raids reportedly launched against Cuba in recent times
The answer was that CIA is responsible for only a relatively
few of the raids that have been publicized. On two occasions,
August 17 and 19, CIA put "ship-borne teams into Cuba, but CIA
isn't responsible for the bombing raids with planes which have
been staged by Cuban exiles from the Bahamas。 (CIA thinks
these raids are ineffective and would prefer that they be stopped)
50
TOP SECRET

Best available image
i
11
TOP SECRET
!!
Aumallish raid is planned by CIA in Oriento Provinco An
Soptombor, and there will be probings of coastal dorongon
all month long.

In answer to Mr. Clifford's question, Mr. Fitzgerald
said that if the teams are captured they will no doubt Ind10656
to the Castro government that they were CIA-trained.

Mr. Mirphy asked whether CIA has a long-range plan imich
de thinks will be effective in following thresh 00
Dhoon on Castro,ithin Cuce,
NW. 185.
Docld:2491
NW 82
DocId:34671876 Page 14

NW 88132
Docld:34671876 Page 15
NW 185
Docld:2491
Page 14
).
de thinks will be effective in following through on a
people is their
people
ות כוס זאלל אחרmarkable thing about the Seben
volatility and their tendency to be heartened by sabotage
wlatefor
cts against Castro. The long range Plan, Mr. Fitzgerald said,
is to stimulate Cuban resistance to Castro. In answer to
Dr. Landes query, . Estegerald gold that to an intervention
intervention (?)
if
in Cuba would not be
pinovi
Soviet Forces I
was about to succeed the Sou
powerful enough to fut it down He noted theit Cuban military
forces number 150,000 plus 75,000 militia
111.
Hr. Murphy asked if CIA had anyone in mid as a replie
بب
ment for Castro and Mr. Fitzgerald replied that there is
none in mind but there are three exile group's being considered.(?)
He added that CIA is not working with State Department on ة
CIA prefers that no leader in in exile exi
possible replacement and CIA.
bas considerca
گرام
and Clark ? concluded and departed at
Messis Fitagerald and Clark.
10 10 A
Best available image
Copy of p.57 with text written above.

TOP SECRET
The DCI then referred to the problem of CIA's limited access
to the US. Embassy in Moscow. He said that there are sources in
the USSR who would be willing to work with the CIA if the Agency
had personnel on the scene to operate these sources。 Mr. McCone
noted that there are only four CIA people in theEmbassy, along
with some 17 US military personnel。 In contrast, Mr. McCone
noted, in the U.S.there are 185 Soviet and 93 Soviet satellite
intelligence officials operating against the U.S. in the Washington
D. C. and New York (UN) areas。 The DCI stated that on the question
of placing additional CIA personnel under official cover in the
Embassy at Moscow, the Ambassador has steadfastly held that the risk
of damage from exposure of such personnel is so severe that it is
not worth the gamble. Therefore, Mr. McCone said, CIA has only four
men in the Moscow Embassy and they would all have to work on any
one case。 Recalling that several CIA operatives had to be taken
out of Moscow when the Penkovskiy case blew up, the DCI empha-
In answer
sized that CIA needs to augment its personnel there。
to Mr. Clifford's inquiry as to what steps were being taken by the
DCI to obtain authorization for the assignment of additional CIA
personnel to the Embassy in Moscow, Mr. McCone said that he has had
conversations with the head of the State Department. However, housing
for U.S. personnel is limited in Moscow and the net result of in
creasing CIA personnel there would probably necessitate the re-
moval of a State Department political officer or some other State
Department representative。
M
NW 185
Docld:2491
NWF880321
Docld:34671876 Page 16
75
TOP SECRET
7)

TOP SECRET
Mr. McCone referred to the Vietnam situation as being very bad, with
a disintegration of relations between the Diem regime and the Vietnamese and
the U. S The situation is so bad we may have to get out of the war. The
U. S. could live with Diem's antagonism but he has lost popular support and
winning the war would be & hollow victory. The U. S. has had no success in
getting Diem to mend his policy. The shooting into a crowd of Buddhists and
the deaths of 8 of them began an impossible situation, and the August raids on
the pagodas were the last straw. If the Diem regime were to be disposed of,
there's no one to replace him, and even though a military coup were pulled
off; CIA does not believe it could stay in power. CIA is maintaining contact
with the military to keep watch on them (but there is no CIA support as has
been publicly alleged).
the U. S. out of the war.
war.
The DCI said that there have been received disturbing reports that Nhu
is making a deal woth the North Vietnamese (who would pay any price to get
The French Ambassador left Saigon for Paris last
night. Mr. McCone added that our President and the Executive Committee of
the NSC have been meeting regularly on the problem. There are differences of
opinion in our Government and in the U. S. Embassy at Saigon as to the best
solution.
Some think if we can get Diem to do reforms we can win the war and
get out Others think Diem should be overthrown.
In answer to Mr. Clifford, the DCI said that State Department and CIA
collaboration is close on the Vietnam situation. He added however that there
was no coordination of the hastily composed August 24 cablegram from the
State Department telling the Embassy to begin thinking about "unloading the
Nhus" and that a change of the regime was in the offing.
NW 185
Docid:2491
Page
NW 8892
Docld:34671876 Page 17
n
70
79
TOP SECRET

W 185
Docid:2491
NWP1321
TOP SECRET
Mr. Clifford invited the DCI to take up any other matters he wished to
coveri Mr. McCone said there were a few that time didn't permit him to cover,
but he would furnish the Board memoranda on "Deep Cover" and "Soviet Trawlers".

As to scheduled CORONA launchings care should be taken as to their.
frequency having in mind that CORONA shots cost $9 million each and GAMBIT
$12 million.

Mr. Gray mentioned to the DCI a recent remark made by Alexis Johnson to
some of the Board members to the effect that although the U. S. can put a man
on the moon for a billion dollars, we can't place an agent in Castro's office.

Mr. Gray said that he would like to hear Mr. McCone's comments to the Board
some time as to the prospect of CIA penetrating the USSR and Cuban Governments
if unlimited millions or billions of dollars were available. Mr. Clifford
agreed that the Board should hear from the DCI on this at the next Board
meeting. Mr. McCone's visit completed, he departed the Board meeting at 12:15.

Following lunch, the Board resumed in executive session. Mr. Coyne
reported some information just received in the Dunlap case. Dunlap's wife
produced another Government document which her husband had apparently removed
from NSA. She said she found it in a strong box to which her husband was not
supposed to have had a key. NSA Director Blake had informed Mr. Coyne that
the document was from NSA to overseas stations on steps to be taken in tests
of procedures with respect to intercepts of Soviet scrambler traffic.

Dr. Baker noted that this is serious, because our only hope for exploiting
Soviet scrambler communications is to take advantage of operator and encryption
mistakes, so any reminder to the Soviets that NSA personnel are looking for
"busts" will be very bad.

Dr. Baker said that the DCI's remark about Dunlap being at the cross-
roads of NSA information is untrue, because in fact Dunlap had access only
80
12
Docld:34671876 Page 18
TOP SECRET

NW 185
Docid:2491
NW 88192
Page 10
Docld:34671876 Page 19
to the crossroads of NSA activity against Soviet SIGINT. Also Dr. Baker
said that the DCI's comments on CIA'S WALNUT data system were exaggerated,
A
ว
for in fact the project has proved to be a useless disaster to say the least,
and it is certainly not a "leading edge" to automation as the DCI had claimed.
Dr. Baker and Mr. Coyne had recently received word on the inadequacy of the
WALNUT system from Mr. Griffith of IBM, privately.
ة الولة
Chairman Clifford agreed with Mr. Coyne's suggestion that at the next
Roard meeting the DCI be asked to report on the status of coordinated effort
In the intelligence community with a view to achieving aidata processing
capability in the intelligence field.
C
Mr. McGeorge Bundy joined the Board meeting at 1:30 and addressed himself
to the items which had been listed in Mr. Clifford's memorandum to Mr. Bundyat
dated September 11, 1963 (attached as a part of these minutes)
1
Also,
First Mr. Bundy expressed the view that there have been significant
improvements in intelligence community support to the White House.. This is
particularly true with respect to current intelligence topics specially covered
by CIA'S OCI. These submissions are useful to the President and White Houser
staff, members because they are mor more timely than NIE's and supply oply the need
for information without having to wait for the results of the necessarily
slower process of turning out finished estimates

Also, Mr. Bundy said the White House is getting good ad hoc reporting
from Department of State intelligence (INR). Some of it goes to the President
and it is of value to staff members in discussions with the President.
Also,
DIA's material forwarded to General Clifton is a useful supplement to more
formally prepared estimates.

CIA's Deputy DCI/Intelligence reports at Mr. Bundy's morning staff
meetings and if a particular intelligence memorandum is needed it is asked for
81
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
bu largely the initiative is with State, Defense, and CIA in making these:
current intelligence submissions.

In short, Mr. Bundy said that the means of access to intelligence are
good, for policy purposes.

As to the second item on the Board's list, Mr. Bundy said he would have
to throw back to the Board the question as to any modifications considered
desirable in providing intelligence community support to the White House
(in the light of the Board's Cuba report). Mr. Bundy thought that he would
not be as good a witness on the Board on this.

Dr. Land remarked that this morning the Board heard optimistically
worded reports by CIA on the responsiveness of Cubans to small sabotage efforts,
but when the CIA representatives were asked about a long range plan for use in
case of a coup in Cuba, they indicated that they had none. Dr. Land also
wondered whether we would have advance intelligence on a coup in time for
our Government to act on it. Mr. Bundy said that we do have an intelligence
Input on the question of whether a coup would result in unacceptable Soviét
reaction, and the tentative judgment that there would not be.
ه مسافر
Mr. Clifford recalled remarks by the CIA representatives to the effect
that if agent teams now being sent into Cuba are caught, CIA will get the
blame as it does in the case of non-CIA covert actions detected by the Castro
regime. Mr. Bundy agreed that this is not a very good defense when agent
teams are caught and their activities are attributed to CIA by Castro.

Mr. Bundy said that the Standing Group file on Cuba is large and Mr. Coyne
might well look through it.
NW185
Docld:2491
NW 8819
Docld:34671876 Page 20
82
82
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
Mr. Murphy wondered whether the intelligence effort is adequately tied
in to the policy process, and he cited the August 24 State Department message
to Saigon representatives indicating a policy change. Mr. Bundy said that the
State Department message was not very well coordinated in its preparation,
but there was no failure of intelligence involved.

Next, as to the adequacy of intelligence community production of timely,
cumulative assessments of current intelligence and indicator-type data, for
example in the South Vietnam situation, Mr. Bundy said that the intelligence
record on problems developing there since last May is pretty good. The
difficulty is that when you get into a matter involving daily operational-type
policy decisions, it is not easy to keep track of the very latest developments.
From now on, Mr. Bundy said that steps will be taken to make sure that the
Standing Group and Executive Committee of the NSC have the same daily "new news!!
as their various intelligence officers do. The principal question regarding
Vietnam is what does Diem actually think he is doing. Raw intelligence
material is not lacking, Mr. Bundy said, but assessment is the problem.
J
:
As to the fourth question listed by the Board, Mr. Bundy said that it
would cause a problem if the Board were to be made recipients of the daily
CIA. Presidential Check List, because the Board would then be getting something
to which the rest of the White House family does not have access. Mr. Bundy
said that he analyzes the Check List on a daily basis and this has resulted.
in the President getting sharper information. However, Mr. Bundy said that
it would be a good thing if Mr. Coyne would look over past Check Lists for
periods of perhaps a month, with a view to analyzing the submissions.
\
NW 185
Docld:2491
NW 88192
Docld:34671876 Page 21
83
TOP SECRET
83

TOP SECRET
As to the fifth and last item in Mr. Clifford's list (inviting
suggestions for increasing the Board's access to covert action matters and
Special Group activities) Mr. Bundy said that he frankly did not know the
Board's present method of covering NSC 5412/2 matters. Dr. Langer said that
the Board Panel on the subject gets briefings from time to time on covert
action operations. Mr. Bundy stated that he himself looks to CIA for reports
asked for concerning the status of particular programs, but he did not want
to have in his fice & compilation of all of such sensitive activities.
But if the Board appoints a Panel to do a review of all covert actions to
date, or of selected programs, he stands ready to meet the Board's needs.

Mr. Clifford said that he or Mr. Coyne would be in touch with Mr. Bundy
regarding the desired review of NSC 5412/2 activities.

Chairman Clifford then turned to the subject of the Nuclear Test Ban
Treaty, noting that the Board had looked at U. S. intelligence capability
to detect violations. He said that it appeared thus far that the U. S.
capability is largely based on the acquisition and enlargement of detection
systems in the future. Mr. Buncy said that he is concerned about the U. S.
capability to apply intelligence safeguards against the treaty violations,
but is unwilling to sign a blank check for detection programs. So the Board
should keep aware of the question as to the worth of adopting certain additional
detection systems, and in Mr. Bundy'