JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 09/24/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER : 206-10001-10005
RECORDS SERIES: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD AGENDA
FOR MEETING OF APRIL 23, 1963
DATE : 04/23/63
PAGES: 16
SUBJECTS : AGENDA FOR APRIL 23, 1963 MEETING

SUMMARY OF APRIL 23, 1963 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98
OPENING CRITERIA : 08/01/2024
COMMENTS : 2025 Release under the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88132
Docld:34671880 Page 1

206-10001-10005

-CONFIDENTIAL

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

AGENDA FOR MEETING OF APRIL 23, 1963

ITEM TIME SUBJECT

1. 9:00 - 9:15 The Chairman's Time

2. 9:15 - 10:15 Status Report on Prior-Board Recommendations.
Mr. Russell-Ash

3. 10:15 - 10:45 Discussions with the Director of Central
Intelligence
Mr. John McCone

4. 10:45 - 11:15 Current Intelligence and Covert Operational
Activity Relating to Cuba
Mr. Sterling J. Cottrell, State Department
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, CIA

5. 11:15 - 12:15 Status Report on Developments Pertaining
to the Defense Intelligence Agency
Lt. General Joseph F. Carroll, USAF,
Director, Defense Intelligence Agency

6. 12:15 - 12:40 Executive Session

7. 12:45 - 2:20 Luncheon at the Metropolitan Club in Honor of
Dr. Killian -- Host: Mr. Clark Clifford

8. 2:30 - 3:00 Status Report - National Reconnaissance
Office
Dr. Brockway McMillan, Director, NRO

9. 3:00 - 4:00 Developments Relating to the National
Security Agency
Mr. John H. Rubel, Deputy Director, Research
and Engineering, Department of Defense
Lt. General Gordon A. Blake, Director,
National Security Agency

10. 4:00 - 5:00 Intelligence Coverage of Foreign Diplomatic
and International Organization Establishments
and Personnel in the United States
Mr. Alan H. Belmont, Assistant Director, FBI

11. 5:00 - 5:10 Executive Session

*This item was not considered at the 4/23/63 meeting of the Board.
In lieu thereof the Board discussed the DCI's reporCONFIDENTIAL
on Cuba dated 4/15/63, following a briefing thereon by Mr. Coyne.
All Board Members Present

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

NW 185
Docld:2495
NW88121
Docld:34671880 Page 2

AGENDA (Continued)

ITEM TIME SUBJECT

12. 5:15 - 5:25 Meeting with the President - Presentation
of Commission to Mr. Clifford as new
Board Chairman

13. 5:25 - End of Executive Session with the new Board Chair-
Day man

Addendum : Subsequent to the preparation of this agenda, the
DCI submitted his comments on the recommendations
(on Cuba and other subjects) which the Board made
to the President at its last meeting. The DCI's
comments are filed under Tab 14.

NW 185
Docld:2495
NW ?
Docld:34671880 Page 3

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Meeting of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory
Board, April 23, 1963

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

TOP SECRET
This document consists of 54 pages
4 Copies, Series

The Board met at 9:00 a.m., April 23, 1963, in the Board's
offices, Room 297, Executive Office Building, at the call of the
Chairman, Dr. Killian. Present were Board members Doolittle,
Murphy, Clifford, Gray, Baker, Pace, Langer and Land, and Messrs.
Coyne and Ash.

Dr. Killian opened the meeting with the observation that when
the DCI joined the Board meeting later in the day, Board members
should be prepared to discuss with Mr. McCone the latter's April 15,
1963, submission to the President of comments in response to the
14 recommendations made in the Board's March 8 report on Cuba.

The Chairman asked Mr. Coyne to give the Board a brief oral
summary of the DCI's April 15 submission to the President. Mr. Coyne
did so by repeating for the information of the Board members the
comment's which he had provided to Mr. Bundy in a memorandum dated
April 22, 1963, in response to Mr. Bundy's request that he be
furnished Mr. Coyne's own reaction (not that of the Board) to the
DCI's communication to the President.

Having heard Mr. Coyne's resume of his comments to Mr. Bundy
on the DCI's report, Dr. Killian thought that the comments were
sound and well presented, although Dr. Killian was of the view that

OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

TOP SECRET
Handle Via COMINT - TALENT - KEYHOLE
Channels Only

NW 185
Docld 2495
NW 82
Docld:34671880 Page 4

TOP SECRET

-9

Briefly referring to his visit to the NPIC quarters at the Naval Gun Factory,
General Doolittle noted that the facility has considerable room for expansion and
the activity is being carried on there under greatly improved conditions. The
Department of Defense personnel contingent which is housed at the facility operates
as a self-contained unit. Mr. Lundahl, Director of the NPIC, reports that although
the facility does not possess sufficient manpower to handle a double load which might
be imposed should two emergency situations occur simultaneously, he nevertheless
feels that the space and equipment expansion now under way at the new quarters would
accommodate the additional personnel who would be required in such a situation.

At the Chairman's request, Mr. Murray briefly informed the Board concerning
the meeting which he and Mr. Gray and Mr. Coyne had recently with Mr. Cord Meyer
of CIA on the subject of covert action programs. Mr. Murphy pointed out that
Mr. Meyer's briefing covered operations in Latin American countries, but the subject
of Cuba was excluded inasmuch as that subject was to be covered at today's Board
meeting. Mr. Murphy said the briefing consisted primarily of light touches in-
cluding information on the China frontier situation. Nothing new was brought up
with respect to Europe or the Middle East, Mr. Murphy said. The CLA briefing
reflected the existence of positive evidence that the entourage of the Brazilian
President Goulart is communist-penetrated. Mr. Murphy observed that this briefing
had been presented by CIA at the request of Mr. Murphy and Mr. Gray, and it was
Mr. Murphy's impression that the briefing was rather routine in nature, and therefore
seemed to downgrade the importance which the Board attaches to the subject of covert
action operations and requirements.

Dr. Land observed that from his experience, every time that secrecy is used
as a cloak for an assumed efficient but sensitive operation, one may well later
fire on removal of the cloak that there was nothing there. Dr. Land thought that

OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST
Handle via BYLMAN
Control System

TOP SECRET
Handle Via COMINT - TALENT - KEYHOLE
Channels Only

NW 185
Docld 2496
NW 882
Docld:34671880 Page 5

Handle via BVELIA
Control System

10

TOP SECRET

it is up to the Board to ascertain specifically whether the President desires that
the Board go into covert action programis deeply, and if that is the Fresident's
wish then the Board should take steps to insure that it receives full and significant
briefings from the agencies concerned. In this connection Mr. Clifford asked
whether there was any limitation at all on the Board's right to know about these
matters Dr. Killian replied that there were no limitations and that this is well
established.

Mr. Coyne informed the Board at this point about the telephone call which had
been received from the Office of the DCI the preceding day, Mr. Kirkpatrick of
CIA had conveyed the DCI's wish that the scheduled CIA briefing of the Board today
on certain clandestine operations be conducted in the absence of Mr. Cottrell,
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Bureau of Inter-American Affairs, who Mr. McCone
understood was to join the Board meeting at the same time the CIA briefing was to
be given. The basis for the DCI's request was the fact that certain aspects of the
CIA briefing to be given on clandestine operations with respect to Cuba involve
covert action operations which Mr. Cottrell is not privy to. Mr. Coyne noted that
the Boed's agenda had been revised to accommodate the DCI's request, although
Mr. Coyne found the request to be somewhat surprising in view of the responsibilities
which have been assigned to Mr. Cottrell by the White House for coordination for
all matters relating to Cuba.

Mr. Gray observed that if at today's meeting the Board in fact received a
full story concerning clandestine and covert actions being planned and executed
under CIA auspices, this would certainly constitute a milestone in the Board's
efforts along this line. Dr. Land thought the Board should take the position that
unless the CIA briefing presents a full story, the briefers should be asked to
continue until the Board has received a full picture: Mr. Clifford thought that
the better procedure to follow would be for the Board to listen to the CIA briefing

OXCART-CORONA IDEALIST

TOP SECRETie Via COMINT-TALENT - KEVIOLE
Channels Only

185
Docld:2495
NW 88192
Docld:34671880 Page 6

11

TOP SECRET

and to ask any questions which it may have during the course of the briefing, and
if the Board still has unanswered questions at the conclusion of the briefing
they should be compiled by the Board staff for discussion at the next meeting of
the Board and pursued further with the DCI. The Board agreed with Mr. Clifford's
suggestion. Mr. Murphy added that the Board should endeavor to ascertain the
context of any over-all plan which the government has with respect to Cuba and under
which the intelligence community is operating. Dr. Killian emphasized the desira-
bility that on the occasion of the CIA briefing today, pertinent questions regarding
Cuba should be pressed with the briefers. Mr. Clifford observed that if the Board
does not receive sufficient information from CIA in these matters, it might be well
to consider the alternative of the Board preparing itself for the conduct of a
searching examination of appropriate CIA representatives who are knowledgeable
in this area, and have a stenographic record prepared of the proceedings.

Handlo vial BYEMAN.
Contiol System

OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

TOP SECRET
Handle Via COMINT TALENT - KEYHOLE
Channels: Only

NW-185
Docld:2495
NW 882
Docld:34671880 Page 7

TOP SECRET

12

At 10:15 a.m., the Director of Central Intelligence, Mr. McCone,
Joined the Board meeting, accompanied by Mesers. Kirkpatrick,
Fitzgerald and Clark. Referring to events of the past twenty-four
hours, the DCI expressed satisfaction that the U.S./Cuba prisoner
exchange had included the return to the U.S. of the 3 senior CIA
personnel who had been imprisoned in Cuba early in the Castro regime
when they were caught in the act of bugging the Chinese Communist
mission in Cuba. Mr. McCone said that the exchange which the attorney
Donovan had worked out with Castro called for the release of 22
Americans in exchange for the return to Cuba of Molina (Castro body-
guard) who was in the custudy of New York authorities following the
slaying of an Argentine girl in a night club, and the 3 Cubans who
were under Federal indictment in New York on sabotage charges. The

NW-185
?
Docld 2495
age
NW 88992
Docld:34671880 Page 8

DCI said that he personally negotiated with Governor Rockefeller
the release of Molina, and that the Attorney General handled the
release of the other three Cubans.

In answer to a questior from Mr. Murphy, the DCI stated that
the terms of the exchange agreement were not of a nature to affect the
conduct of present or future U.S. intelligence and covert action oper-
ations with respect to Cuba. Mr. McCone added that Castro did not
seek any conditions other than the release of the 4 Cubans being held
in the U.S. Mr. McCone thought it interesting that Castro had pressed
for no conditions involving U.S. policy towaii Cuba, and had sought
no assurances regarding U.S. aerial surveillance, espionage operations,
military policy, or anything else. Vallejo, Castro's assistant, told

TOP SECRET
OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST
Handle via BYŁMAN
Control System

Handle Via COMINT-TALENT KEYHOLE
Channels Only

13

TOP SECRET

attorney Donovan to tell President Kennedy and Mr. Mic Cone that
Castro realizes that he must gain a rapprochment with the U.S.,
and Mr. Mc Cone expressed the belief that in agreeing to the recent
prisoner exchange Castro is seeking to retain a thread of contact
with the U.S. as insurance in the event of a double-cross by the
USSR. The DCI had no idea why he had been included in the message
to be delivered by Donovan.

Mr. McCone pointed out that the attorney Donovan has
become our only direct channel to Castro. However, Donovan has
announced that his mission is ended and that with the completion
of the recent exchange he had gone into Cuba for the last time (for
one thing Donovan had to make the announcement to head off continued
appeals by Cuban exiles in the U.S. to help obtain the release of
numerous relatives still remaining in Cuban prisons). Therefore,
Mr. Me.Cone noted, if any future us. is to be made of Donovan's entree
to Castro, it would undoubtedly have to be on some basis other than
prisoner releases.

Messrs. Kirkpatrick and Fitzgerald noted that apparently the
Castro regime had not succeeded in connecting the 3 CIA personnel
to employment with CIA.

Next, Mr. McCone turned to several matters which he wished to
mention to the Board.

In the coordination field, the DCI informed the Board that the
new NRO agreement is now in effect and working well. Plans and
arrangements for the DIA's use of the NPIC are progressing. In the

OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

TOP SECRET
Handie Via COMINT-TALENT - KEYHOLE
Channels Only

Docld-249
NW 82
Docld:34671880 Page 9

Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

19

TOP SECRET

Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald of CIA (DD/P Area) exhibited a chart reflecting the
following information concerning clandestine agents in Cuba as of April 1, 1953,
and the intelligence rèports which they had produced during the 12-month period
ending April 1, 1963:

82 resident agents 665 reports
2. illegal teams. 77 reports.
29 legal travelers 67 reports.
46 shipboard agents 39 reports
26 penetrations of Cuban installations. 192 reports.

In answer to questions raised by Board members, Mr. Fitzgerald elaborated
upon the statistics displayed on the chart which he exhibited to the Board.

The "resident agents" are not third-country diplomats but are Cubans. As:
of March 1, 1962, there were 50 such agents in Cuba. Thereafter, 480 individuals
Of the number which were recruited,
were considered for possible use in this category.
34 resident agents in Cuba have been lost (one is known to have been executed,
27 are unaccounted for, 4 escaped after arrest). As of April 1, 1963 the total
number of resident agents in Cuba is 82 as indicated previously by Mr. Fitzgerald

With reference to the "illegal teams" of which there are 2 in Cuba,
Mr. Fitzgerald stated that the teams consist of 2 men cach, but that as many as 100
sub-agents have been developed by the teams The recruitment and operation of the
2 teams are in the "black", the teams were introduced by sea and their mission.
is primarily intelligence gathering A principal intelligence mission is the
obtaining of information concerning military aspects of the Soviet presence in
Cuba. Also, Mr. Fitzgerald stated, the illegal teams are designed to create resistance
networks among the Cuban population if possible, but the policy is not to pursue large-
scale, dangerous activity of this sort. For the most part reports are received from
members of the illegal teams in the form of secret writing messages dispatched

OXCART-CORONA IDEALIST

TOP SECRE
انام

Handle Via COMINT-TALENT KEYHOLE
Channels. Only

NW 185
Docld:2495
NW 8
Docld:34671880 Page 10

20

TOP SECRET

in the regular mail by way of Mexico, and Mr. Fitzgerald stated in this connection
that efforts are being made to equip the team members ith it additional radios (they
have 4 agent-type radios now); and it is hoped that the team members will soon be
equipped with radio units which are small in size (the transmitter and receiver
together about the size of 2 cigarette cartons) and capable of medium speed trans-
missions for spans of only 60 seconds. Mr. Fitzgerald further informed the Board
that there were 4 illegal agents in Cuba as of March 1, 1962, and in the 12-month
period ending April 1, 1963, 45 agents were infiltrated, 32 were ex-filtrated, and
13 were lost, and as of April 1, 1963 there are in Cuba 14 agents comprising the
2 illegal agent teams.

With reference to the shipboard agents, Mr. Fitzgerald said that these
agents are or board Cuban ships, of which there are only 19 operating outside
of Cubarwaters. With regard to penetrations of Cuban installations previously
referred to, Mr. Fitzgerald stated that these involve Cuban diplomats and Cuban
diplomatic installations abroad. He added that some 14 Cuban diplomats are
providing information and 2 of these have furnished reports which are considered
to be good. In answer to Mr. Murphy's question, Mr. Fitzgerald said that the
only penetration of Castro's immediate entourage has been through Castro's
younger sister. He added that the penetrations referred to included 12 of an
audio aurveillance, nature Referring again to the 665 intelligence reporte
which have been obtained from resident agents in Cuba, Mr. Fitzgerald said that
these reports are heavily devoted to military subjects and a few of them have
proved really worth while, as for example, during the October crisis when these
On the economic side, it is reported
reports served to pin-point MREM locations
that curtailed exports of special lubricating oil components gives the Cubans
a serious problem in the operation of inuustrial machinery
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System
OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

TOP SECRET
Handle Via COMINT - TALENT - KEYHOLE
Channels Only

NW 185
DocId: 2495
NW 88192
10
Docld:34671880 Page 11

21,

TOP SECRET

At this point, Mr. Cottrell of the Department of State Joined the Board
meeting.
1.
In answer to a question by Mr. Murphy, Mr. Fitzgerald said that the intelli-
gence teams mostly confined their activities to intelligence gathering rather than
covert action, although the teams do have the mission of creating low-key iresistance
and subtle sabotage". Mr. Fitzgerald said that although CLưc has no policy guidance
for positive covert action programs of a specific sabotage nature, there is policy
guidance for leaflet drops and radio propaganda, and an example of "subtle sabotage
would be the shorting out of a high tension power line by throwing a copper wire
over it.
:
Mr. Fitzgerald stated that the Special Group approved the monthly plans of the
CIA for infiltrations of illegal agents into Cuba, and thereafter the success of
ingiltrations is determined by such matters as weather conditions and the requirement
Mr. Coyne asked whether
for carrying out infiltrations in the dark of the moon
CIA was kept informed about U. S. Army infiltrations into Cuba, and Mr. Fitzgerala
replied that while CIA received notice of such activity, hone nad occhired to huge
knowledge for the past 6 months
DIGARHry Murphy asked whether there is available any, evidence of organized resistance
Mr. Fitzgerald replied that while there is
against the Castro regime within Cuba
He recalled that in 1962 résistance
Scattered resistance it is not organized
organizations composed of students and other groups had been infiltrated by the
Castro Security Service and after a time Castro rolled up the resistance groups and
smashed them completely. The only resistance which is now active in Cuba is in the:
form of small bands.

Referring back to Mr. Fitzgerald's earlier comment that the CLA has no policy
guidance with respect to the conduct of covert action programs in Cuba, Mr. Coyne
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System
OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

TOP SECRET
Handio Via COMINT- TALENT - KEYHOLE
Channels Only

Docid 2495
NW 88182
Docld:34671880 Page 12

Handle via DYLAN
Control System

22

TOP SECRET

inquired as to the function of Mr. Cottrell's Interdepartmental Coordinating
Committee with respect to Cuba. In response to this question, Mr. Cottrell
described his coordinating function, beginning with the point that the President
had requested last January that coordination be supplied to the activities of the
6 or 7 U. S. agencies which were dealing with the 14 or 5 Cuban exile groups. The
President directed that there be established a focal point for coordination of
policy recommendations and execution of approved policies assigned for implementation
by various U. S. agencies following decisions by the Executive Committee of the NSC
with respect to Cuba Having been given this coordinating responsibility, Mr. Cottrell
named Secretary of the Army Vance and Mr. Helms of CIA to serve on the committee,
with provision for drawing upon representatives of other agencies as might be re-
quired from time to time. Mr. Cottrell said that his committee is charged with
coordinating policy with respect to Cuba, the objectives being to prevent Cuba from
becoming a base of Soviet aggression, to prevent the overt export of military equip-
ment from Cuba to other Latin American countries for communist purposes, to prevent
the export of subversivé activities to other Latin American countries from Cuba and
to seek the removal of the Soviet presence in Cuba. Mr. Cottrell went on to say that
when CIA proposes covert actions with respect to Cuba, the Cottrell Committee
considers the proposals and comments on them to the Special Group, and if a policy
issue is involved in a given proposal the matter is referred to the Executive
Committee of the NSC for decision

Mr. Murphy asked Mr. Cottrell if he would state for the Board Mr. Cottrell's
concept of what U. S. policy toward Cuba is today, for instance whether the policy
is of a defensive or an offensive character Mr. Cottrell answered by saying that
in his opinion that the U. S. policy toward Cuba is not defensive, and as an
indication of this he referred to the visit which he and Deputy Attorney General
Katzenbach made to Nicareuga where a conference was held with officials of Central
American countries concerning visa and other travel controls which might be
-TALENT-KEYHOLE
Channels Only
OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST TOP SECRET Handle Via COLMINT-

NW 185
Docld: 2495
NW 8882
Docld:34671880. Page 13.

Handle via BYEMΑΝ
Control System

23

TOP SECRET
!
improved or instituted for the purpose of restricting the travel of Castro's.
representatives in Latin American countries. In further describing the U. S.
policy, Mr. Cottrell said that in his own view our government at does not intend to
invade Cuba except as a last resort, and our policy holds that tue: Liberation of
Cuba is the responsibility of the Cuban people themselves. However, Mr. Cottrell
added, it is felt by a number of people that the time has long past when we might
expect a successful popular uprising in Cuba against the Castro regime.

Mr. Gray asked whether the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Cuba would alter
the point of view just mentioned by Mr. Cottrell to the effect that we cannot hope
for a successful popular uprising in Cuba. Mr. Cottrell preferred that this question
be answered by Mr. Fitzgerald who expressed the opinion that withdrawal of Soviet
forces would not significantly affect the situation because of the strong internal
security measures which are maintained by the Castro regime in Cuba

Referring again to Mr. Fitzgerald's earlier statement that CIA is lacking in
policy guidance on covert actions, Mr. Coyne inquired as to whether requests
for such guidance had been made. Mr. Fitzgerald replied that a decision in this
area is being sought this week. Mr. Cottrell observed that previously the government's
prime objective had been to obtain the release of the 22 Americans imprisoned in
Cuba, and now that this has been accomplished, Mr. Cottrell predicted that future.
operations would include low-level reconnaissance missions, increased sabotage
operations, and intensified efforts to obtain OAS action. He added that inasmuch.
as the "noise level" is down it is hoped that aggressive programs may now be pursued.
Mr. Cottrell also said that he believes the time has come to begin creating tensions
in the Cuban area, and he noted that critics of the Administration have been charging
that our government has fallen into a co-existence policy with respect to Cuba
In Mr. Cottrell's opinion Castro must feel that his recent release of the
American prisoners will aid rapprochment efforts with respect to the U. S. and
Castro probably hopes that he may now quietly go on building up his communist
OXCART CORONA IDEALIST

TOP SECRET
Handle Via COMINT - TALENT - KEVHOLE
Channels Only

NW 185
Docld:2495
NW 2
Docld:34671880 Page 14

Hamile via CYLIAN,
Control System

24

TOP SECRET

strength.

Next Mr. Bruce Clark of CIA (the DD/I Area) briefed the Board with respect
to certain aspects of intelligence coverage of Cuba
Mr. Clark stated that during the period February 15 to April 20, 1963 the
CIA believes that most
Soviets have removed approximately 4,700 personnel from Cuba.
of the 4,700 Soviet personnel were military people because of their age and appearance
and because there is little likelihood that the Soviets would be removing economic
personnel from Cuba. CIA estimates that only 500 or 600 Soviets have arrived during
this period, and CIA reasons that the 4,700 Soviets who have been withdrawn are
military personnel who have completed tours of duty, including some entire logistic
units. CIA estimates that this leaves in. Cuba Soviet personnel totaling on the
order of "12,000 plus". Mr. Clark said that the validity of the lauter figure
depends on the validity of the original estimated total of 17,500 Soviet personnel
in Cuba, a figure which was arrived at on a strict table of organization basis,
taking into account the estimated number of persons logically required to operate
the equipment which has been observed in Cuba. In the opinion of Mr. Clark, the
estimated fiture of 4,700 Soviet withdrawals is far sounder than the previous
estimate of 17,500 total personnel in Cuba.

Dr. Killian asked whether there is evidence of re-introduction of Soviet
military personnel into Cuba and their deployment and concealment by means of
camouflage. Mr. Clark said that in view of the redundency of the high altitude
coverage and the fact that nothing has been seen in photography since November 1962,
evidence is to the contrary
In answer to Mr. Murphy's question as to what Soviet personnel are presently
doing in Cuba, Mr. Clark estimated that 7,500 are connected with SAM installations
and activity, another 7,500 are in the category of military engineers, and 2,000
are engaged in naval operations. Mr. Clark indicated that Soviet personnel are
OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

TOP SECRET idlo Via COMINT-TALENT-KEYHOLE
Channels Only

NW 185
Docld: 2495
NW 882
Docld:34671880 Page 15

Handlo via Dill
Control System

25.

TOP SECRET

scattered out over the island of Cuba and the greatest concentrations are the
2,500 to 4,000 Soviet personnel in the 4 major Soviet armored camps. In answer
to Dr. Langer's question as to what the 2,500 to 4,000 personnel are doing, Mr
Clark stated that their main mission was probably the furnishing of training
to Cuban military forces. Mr. Clark said that COMINT obtained this week confirms
reports that Cuban pilots are receiving training in MIG-21's.

Noting that Mr. Fitzgerald had stated that CIA had 4 agents in Cuba in 1962
and now has 4 agents in Cuba in 1963, Mr. Clifford wondered whether efforts are
being made through other Latin American countries to infiltrate clandestine agents
in Cuba. Mr. Fitzgerald said that efforts are being made to develop agents from
other Latin American countries to operate in Cuba. He added that while Mr. Clifford's
recollection was correct concerning the constant figure of "illegal" agents in Cuba
as of a year ago and at the present time, nevertheless there are approximately
87 "resident" agents in Cuba who are engaged in clandestine intelligence collection.

Messrs'. Cottrell, Kirkpatrick, Fitzgerald and Clark departed the Board
meeting at this point.

At 12:00 noon, the Board meeting was joined by General Carroll, the
Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and by General Quinn and Colonel
Cillis, members of General Carrol's staff.

General Carroll recalled that at a Board meeting last year he had discussed
the status of the organization of the Defense Intelligence Agency and the responsi-
bilities which had been assigned to DLA or were being considered for assignment to
General Carroll said that at this time he would like to point out the present
status of organization of the DIA and the responsibilities which have been recently
assigned to it.
DIA
:
General Carroll pointed out that DIA has the responsibility for handling
military intelligence requirements for the Department of Defense as a central
OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

TOP SECRET
Handio Via COMINT-TALENT-KEYHOLE
Channels Only

NW 185-
DocId:2495
P
NW ซีรี
Docld:34671880 Page 16

34

TOP SECRET

figure for NSA was given as 20,000 in comparison with the UK total of 6,600
personnel engaged in this type of activity.

With respect to SIGINT collection on Cuba, General Blake informed the Board
that in March 1961 there were 10 NSA intercept positions and 5 processing staff
personnel working on Cuba, which was increased by February 1963 to 100 positions
and. 1,660 people. Mr. Clifford inquired as to whether any SIGINT which was obtained
on Cuba entered into U.. S. policy decisions during the October 1962 Cuba crisis
General Blake said that the policy makers were supplied with SIGINT on Soviet shipping
1.
to Cuba as early as the spring and early summer of 1962. Dr. Tordella added that
also in the early summer of 1962 NSA was able to report on the SIGINT, buildup of
the Soviets in Cuba, and was able to provide information on defense communications
networks as well as the plain text of communications sent by the Soviet Ambassador
to his superiors in Moscow.

m
Mr. Murphy, inquired as to whether NSA now has an ability to penetrate Soviet
communications to Cuba. Dr. Tordella stated that in spite of the short distance
which separates Cuba from the U.. S. the security precautions followed by the Soviets
would not permit a hit-and-run commando type effort to pre-empt the communications
equipment involved. General Blake had no suggestions to offer in response to
Mr. Coyne's inquiry as to whether the NEA would like to extend its operations with
respect to Cuba beyond those which are now programmed.
General Blake did refer
to efforts which are being made, through direction finding methods, to pin-point
the location of the Soviet communications equipment in question, hopefully within
the range of 1 mile
General Blake pointed out that the Russian SCRAMBLER system
which is employed on 2 links running from Moscow to Havana, and which operates at
the rate of 66 words a minute, may be approaching a solution on the part of NSA
TOP SECRET
meanwhile, some traffic analysis is being obtained from it.
Handle via BYEMAN.
Control System
OXCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

Handle Via COMINT - TALENT-KEYHOLE
Channels Caly

NW 185
Docld:2495
NWP8221
DocId:34671880 Page 17

35

TOP SECRET

Dr. Tordella mentioned that NSA is getting good results from its attack on
SILVER, the Soviet government communications channel within Russia which handles
The exploitation of this break-through
approximately 40,000 messages a quarter
will be increased when NSA obtains 15 million dollars in additional equipment
Dr. Tordella said that NSA is on the
during the remainder of this year and next
verge of solving the Soviet COPPER system which is used by the Soviet Navy and feeds
into the SILVER network. It is expected that NSA will solve the COPPER machine
within a year

Dr. Tordella said that the Soviet ALUMINUM SCRAMBLER system is approaching
a 50% probable solution by NSA. This system has the greatest number of Soviet users
including those in Cuba and is of greatest interest to NSA. Dr. Tordella said that
the Russian ALBATROSS system, utilizing a manual machine and which is also in use
in Cuba, has been the subject of NSA attack since 1945 and during the last 7 months
He added that the Russian diplomatic cipher
has shown, promise of possible solution
system involves the use of hand systems (