C
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 02/11/98
Page: 1

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10278
RECORDS SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1821-28

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: SAC, MM
TITLE:
DATE: 08/02/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: ACA, VDEH, EXPLOSIVES, SEIZED, BOMBING RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/11/98
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS:

NW 78318
Docld:34489629 Page 1.

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

Airtel

1 - Nasca

8/2/63

To: SAC, Miami
2 - New Orleans
2 - Newark
2 - Atlanta
2 - Jacksonville

From: Director, FBI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 11/15/84 BY SPBIA/G
4/18/94
Sp8 MACIGAT (JFK)

VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ, et al.
NEUTRALITY MATTERS

ReNOtel 8/1/63 in captioned matter.

Miami immediately advise results of interview of
Miami PCI Michael McLaney, particularly whether he is related to
William Julius McLaney. In view of Michael McLaney's reported
interest in 6/15/63 plan to bomb Cuba, he might well have a connection
with this case and may have influenced William McLaney to cooperate
in captioned matter.

Miami also immediately interview Antonio Soto, Evelio
Alpizar, Miguel Alvarez, Sam Benton and Jose de Jesus Basulto Leon
who have been mentioned in previous Miami communications as possibly
being involved in this matter, as well as any other suspects developed
through investigation. Miami also interview Gonzalo Herrera, former
Cuban airlines pilot and other logical former Cuban pilots who may
have been approached to pilot planes in this matter. If not already
done, all suspects connected with the June 15 1963, attempt to bomb
Cuba, which was handled by Customs, should be interviewed.

1 - Albany
1 - New York
- Springfield

DeLoach VHN:pal
Evans (15)
Gale
Sullivan
Rosen
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
Pal
62 AUG 12 1963
MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

NW 78318
Docld:34489629 Page 2

Airtel to SAC, Miami
Re: VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ, et al.

New Orleans obtain as accurate an estimate as
possible of the cash value of the explosives and other material
seized. Advise Bureau of this figure by airtel and be certain
to include it as a recovery value in the forthcoming report being
submitted. All offices conducting investigation in the matter
cover leads immediately upon receipt, and surep without delay in
view of the importance of this case and the Department's interest.
Report significant developments to Bureau by teletype.

Every effort should be made to identify all
participants, the source of funds, the source of arms and the
location of planes, if any, which were to be utilized in the
bombing attack on Cuba. All offices will keep Bureau, Miami
and New Orleans currently advised of all developments.

- 2 -

NW 78318
Docld:34489629 Page 3
