JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90090-10026
RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
FROM: NSA
TO:
TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 09/03/1963
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS: ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/26/2018

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS: MEMO

2025 Release under the John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 173
Docld:2394
Page 1 2

***SECRET KIMBO***
***NO FOREIGN DISSEM***

TO BE GIVEN SERIEX X (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

CCP/L (English) WS 3-IH-71 2/0/X/T68-63
IS 3 Sep 63 P
TT 31 Aug ØØ162

HAITIAN DISSIDENT ARRIVING SANTO DOMINGO
COVERNAME OF CUBAN REVEALED

[RADIOTELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN:]

[New York: Mr CANTAVE ((A)) 29 Aug 63
[and]
Santo Domingo: ROGERVRIGAUD]
Msg Nr: --

[N.Y. wants to speak either to RIGAUD, or to PAUL VERNA at the
Jaragua Hotel, Telephone Nr. 22131, in S.D.]

N.Y.: Hello. Is this VERNA or ROGER? FBI INFO
3/23/98
CLASSIFIED BY 3668-SLD/m
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

S.D.: This is ROGER. (JFK)

N.Y.: Oh, ROGER. This is MICHEL((B)).

S.D.: How are you? FOI/PA# 211/326
APPEAL #
CIVIL ACT. #
Ε.Ο. #12356 (CAX4)
DATE 11/12/1 INITIANSGOL
N.Y.: Fine, and you?

S.D.: Fine.

N.Y.: Well ... listen ... listen, you wanted to know the
name of these ...

S.D.: Uh huh ... toys((C)).

N.Y.: I have no names, but I have a code word [or covername].

S.D.: Can you give me the word? 164-330-217-3-21

LUREAU SOURCE-6
Yes, POLO.
INTEXED
NOT RECORDED
SEP 19

2/0/X/T68-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 5 PAGES

NW 173
Docld:2394
Page 2 ***SECRET KIMBO***

***SECRET KIMBO***
***NO FOREIGN DISSEM***

2/0/X/T68-63

S.D.: Eh?

N.Y.: POLO.

S.D.: POLO?

N.Y.: P, O, L, [spells] ... is the name ... you know
his name? His real name ... is ROLANDO((D)).

S.D.: Uh huh.

N.Y.: The code is POLO ... Understood?

S.D.: Uh huh.

N.Y.: Good, listen. I am coming Sunday.

S.D.: Ah! Sunday is the day you are coming.

N.Y.: Yes.

S.D.: O.K.

N.Y.: Listen ... Do you have any messages [or errands] for
RENE((E))?

S.D.: Eh ... for the moment, no. I did not know that this
had to be done.

N.Y.: Uh huh.

S.D.: Are you coming with something else?

N.Y.: Wait for me Sunday at 6 o'clock.

S.D.: Are you coming with something else?

N.Y.: Up to now, only messages [or errands].

-2-

NW 173
Docld:2394
Page 3 ***SECRET KIMBO***

***SECRET KIMBO***
***NO FOREIGN DISSEM***

2/0/X/T68-63

S.D.: Messages? [or errands].

N.Y.: Uh huh.

S.D.: Good, and about the bird((F)), nothing at all?

N.Y.: No.

S.D.: No?

N.Y.: No. Nothing at all.

S.D.: O.K.

N.Y.: Have you seen the bird?

S.D.: No.

N.Y.: The little bird((G))? No?

S.D.: No.

N.Y.: You didn't see it?

S.D.: No.

N.Y.: Good. And do you have any information about the others?

S.D.: Not at all.

N.Y.: All the others.

S.D.: Not at all.

N.Y.: The children((H))?

S.D.: No, we are precisely endeavoring to find them ... to
join them again.

N.Y.: And you have no information up to now?

-3-

NW 173
Docld:2394
Page 4 ***SECRET KIMBO***

***SECRET KIMBO***
***NO FOREIGN DISSEM***

2/0/X/T68-63

S.D.: No, up to now none. Is there any way, on your side, to
have them reached?

N.Y.: No, no.

S.D.: There is no way.

N.Y.: There is no way. ... I know they have left.

S.D.: Yes.

N.Y.: That's all I know.

S.D.: But you don't know what date?

N.Y.: No.

S.D.: You don't know what date they left?

N.Y.: At the present time, no ... I don't know exactly
what day.

S.D.: Good ... I will be waiting for you Sunday.

N.Y.: Yes ... at 1800 hours.

S.D.: Agreed.

[End of conversation]

-4-

NW 173
Docld:2394
Page 5 ***SECRET KIMBO***

***SECRET KIMBO***
***NO FOREIGN DISSEM***

2/0/X/T68-63

((A)) Not General LEON CANTAVE.
((B)) Probably GERARD MICHEL.
((C)) Possibly covername for "weapons."
((D)) Probably former Senator ROLANDO ARCADIA MASFERRER ROJAS,
an anti-Castro Cuban, who has reportedly joined forces with
the CANTAVE/RIGAUD/VERNA group.
((E)) Possibly RENE LEON.
((F)) Possibly covername for "plane".
((G)) Possibly covername for "light plane."
((H)) Possibly covername for "JEUNE HAITI" members.

MS 1 TI 29 Aug 63 1650Z
CN (ILC)
-5-

NW 173
Docld:2394
Page 6 ***SECRET KIMBO***
