File #:
62-116395

Serial Scope:
1-50

NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

OPTIONAL CORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106

UNITED STATES GORNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. R. Wannall

FROM: W. O. CregaMLINFORMATION CONTAINED

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75
CONFIXENTIAL
1 -- Mr. Callahan
1 -- Mr. Adams

DATE: 3/10/75

1 -- Each Assistant Directofent.

NEINES UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT 1 - Mr. Cregar
WHERE SHOWN OTHERVISE.
#MDR16
DECLASSIFIED EX SP2 PLINU.
011-7-00

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting
of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Review of
the Intelligence Community, (hereafter referred to as the
Group), held on 3/7/75.

The Group is chaired by Mr. John Clarke, Associate
Deputy to the Director of Central Intelligence, and is made
up of representatives of agencies and departments having
membership on the United States Intelligence Board (USIB).
Its purpose is to serve as a coordinating mechanism for future
testimony before various Congressional committees..

At the meeting of the Group on 3/7/75 the following
items were discussed:

Congressman Robert McClory has been designated as
the minority leader of the House Select Committee. Copies of
the annexes prepared by various members of the Intelligence
Community have been delivered to both the majority and minority
leader of the House Select Committee. Congressman McClory. is
very security conscious, is concerned that sensitive relation-
ships are not inadvertently disclosed during forthcoming hearings
and according to Mr. John Clarke appears to have no questions
regarding FBI authority to engage in domestic surveillances.
CIA has prepared a draft letter to Senator Church releasing
CIA employees from any obligations imposed upon them by CIA's
Secrecy Agreement (draft copy furnished the Legal Counsel
Division). Prior to releasing the letter to Senator Church,
CIA is having it reviewed by the White White House to determine if
they have any objections to its content..
2-116:15-50
REC-37

CIA anticipates that staff employees of the Senate
Select Committee (SSC), will have direct access to CIA buildings
but will not have direct access to CIA files or CIA parsome7.1975
Arrangements for the staff of the SSC to interview CIA personnel
will be made through Mr. John Clarke.

WOC:ebc
(17)
APR 11 1975 APE
XEROX
JUN 11 1975
CONTINUED - OVER

CONERENTIAL: Broc
D
GAL COUNSEL
TIN

Memorandum for Mr. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY 75
CONFIDEIAT

Mr. James Wilderotter, Associate Deputy Attorney
General, and Mr. John Warner, General Counsel, CIA, will
have a meeting with the Counsel of the SSC on Tuesday,
3/11/75, to work out precise wording for a Secrecy Agreement
that all members of the SSC staff have agreed to sign.

On 3/10/75 the staff of the SSC will convene to
develop a list of requirements that they expect to levy on
all agencies making up the Intelligence Community. Hopefully
Mr. Clarke will have some information on these requirements
prior to the time they are levied on the individual agencies.

As a result of Mr. Colby's appearance before the
House Government Information in Individual Rights Subcommittee,
Government Operations Committee, 3/5/75, CIA is getting many,
many, calls from Senators and Congressmen asking how they can
find out whether CIA has a file on them and what its contents
are. Mr. Clarke noted that members of the Group should
anticipate receiving similar calls from Congressmen.

Mr. Hank Knocke, who heads up the CIA task force
responsive to the Rockefeller Commission, advised that staff
members of the Rockefeller Commission have been issued CIA
badges, occupy CIA office space, and have authority to
personally contact any CIA employee without clearing such
contact with CIA officials. In addition, the Rockefeller
Commission staff employees have been granted access to CIA
files. After reviewing these files, if the staff decides to
make certain portions of the files a matter of official
Commission business, CIA has a right to excise the names of
any sensitive sources. In the event information contained in
these files originates with another Agency of the Government
CIA has insisted and the staff concurs that the originating
Agency must be consulted before such information can be
released to the staff.
(0)

Mr. Knocke also advised that it is his understanding
that both Mr. Kelley and Mr. Colby will receive in the mail
shortly a request from the Commission to prepare a joint
response covering the activities of foreign intelligence officials
in the U. S.

CON
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 3
- 2-
CONTINUED ! - OVER

Memorandum for Mr. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY 75
CONFIDENTIAL
مروع

CIA as well as the rest of the Intelligence
Community is concerned over requests received by Morton
Halperin under the Freedom of Information Act. Treasury,
National Security Council, Defense Intelligence Agency,
CIA, State Department and the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB), have received requests from Halperin.
According to Mr. Clarke, a meeting will be convened by the
OMB involving interested parties in an effort to coordinate
a response. Mr. Colby, in his role as the Director of
Central Intelligence, is very concerned that in responding
to Halperin's requests one Agency does not deny providing
information to Halperin that another Agency expects to give
Halperin. To date the Bureau has not received a request
from Halperin under the Freedom of Information Act. 10 (0)

ACTION:

For information and record purposes.

WRWL
mec

This may possibly he considered a
Conspiracy-to
denef 70 I hights.
We should autoid
all such implication eger of fepho
noted ad Greger of
3/14/75 people devised
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 4

hak
#moers
DATE 11-7-00SPIDE
ΣΤΙΣ ΣΚΡΟΝΜΑΤΙON CON
MREZA IS UNCLASSZEEN
Assistant Attorney General for Administration

March 7, 1975

Nicholas P. Callahan
Associate Director, FEISENStudy 75

INQUIRY BY GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO) AND
THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET (OMB)
CONCERNINGVINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

APPROPRIATIONS- 1974.
On the afternoon of March 7, 1975, Mr. James F. Hoobler,
Director, Management Programs and Budget Staff, furnished a copy of a
memorandum from GAO to the Deputy Director of the OMB which requested
information concerning appropriations, outlays and legislative authority
for such appropriations and expenditures.

S
With regard to the FBI's Intelligence Division, a response
was requested concerning the amounts of budget authority for fiscal years
1974 and 1975 and actual outlays for fiscal year 1974; an indication of where
in the Foderal budget these amounts or any portion of them appear; any
language in the budget which explains or indicates the purpose or purposes
for which sich amounts will be spent; and the legislative authority for each,
of the listed appropriations and expenditures.
04
Original Filed it 66-19125-94

The FDI does not receive budget authority or account for
budget outlaye specifically for internal security or intolligence activitios or
for any organizational component handling sich matters. The FBI's budget
request for funds to handle internal security or intelligence matters is set
forth under the budget activity "fccurity and Criminal Investigations."
Based cu manpower utilisation surveys which have been condicted, it is
estimated that approximately 23 percent of the FBI's remorrces go to support
activities under the supervision of the Intelligence Division. It is estimated,
therefore, that in the fiscal year 1974 the FBI's budget authority containod
fanis amounting to some 501 millics and that it had outlays of about $33 million
Assoc. Dir.rort these nedvidien. The amoni contained in the FBI's budget authority
Dep. AD Ad the fiscal year 1970 is climated to be $102 million
Dep. AD Inv
Asst Dir.
Acril
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Filos & Com.
Gan. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intall.
:
Spoc. Inv.
3
The percorso for which these finds are ezed are set forth
in justificctioa antoriul preemyanying Imdget estimates subcitted to the Cong

LCG:jich
2 ENCLOSURE
188608-201975989530 Page 5
62-116395-
See designated and note on page two....

NOT RECORDED
☑
AY1-1975
مزاج
?

Assistant Attorney General for Administration

In the FBI's material for fiscal years 1974 and 1975 these purposes are
set forth under the section "Objective" and they are captioned "Domestic
Intelligence" and "Coordination and Dissemination of Security Data."
Additional data is furnished in each of those years under the section "Status
of Base Program" and is captioned "Internal Security Operations."

The legislative authority for the appropriation and expenditares
for the fiscal year 1974 is contained in the Departments of State, Justice,
Commerce, and The Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act, 1974
(Public Law 93-162). The legislative authority for fiscal year 1975 is
contained in the Appropriation Act for the same agencies (Public Law 93-433)..

1 - Mr. James F. Hoobler, Director
Management Programs and Budget Staff

1- Mr. Wannall - Enclosure
1- Mr. Mintz - Enclosure
1- Mr. Moore - Enclosure

NOTE: The attached inquiry from GAO is being coordinated by the OMB. It
was received by us from the Department at 1:14 p.m., 3/7/75, with a request
that the information be furnished by the close of business the same date.

NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 6

NW-88608 Docld:32989530 Page 7
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
To Mr. Hoobler
ROUTE SLIP
Take nocessary action
Approval or signature
Comment
Preparc reply
Discuss with me
For your information
Soc remarks below
Jim Purcell
FROM im
Parcell
3-7-75
:
DATE
REMARKS

Mr. Hoobler:

Will you please provide the requested
information indicated by Mr. Scantlebury's
memo of February 24 pertaining to the FBI.
Item "8" which refers to the FBI Internal
Security Division should be interpreted
as the FBI's Intelligence Division.

I would appreciate having this information,
if possible, by close of business, today.

62-116395-
ENCLOSURE
#MORIG
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
FERMINI UNCLASSIELEID
DATE 11-7-00 PM SP-2 Acm/116
ONE FORM 4
EV AUG 7i
25 197
:

DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AND
GENERAL MANAGEMENT STUDIES
UNITED STATES GENERAL ACCOUIN OFFICE
WASHINGTON, D.C. 205/13

FEB 24 1975

Mr. Paul. II. O'Neill
Deputy Director
Office of Management and Budget

Dear Mr. O'Neill:

We have recently received a request from a Member of the Senate
Budget Committee for our assistance in obtaining budget data with
respect to various intelligence activities of the Federal Government.
We have the budget data that is publicly available. However, as you are:
aware, most of the requested information is not readily available and
is usually provided to the Congress in limited briefings. We have
discussed this matter with representatives of the Senate Budget Committee.
and it is their desire to obtain the requested data by other than oral
briefings.

The request involves amounts of budget authority for fiscal years
1974 and 1975 by each of the following agencies, and the actual outlays
by each such agency during FY 1974.

1. Central Intelligence Agency

2. National Security Agency

3. Defense Intelligence Agency

4. Army Intelligence

5. Naval Intelligence

6. Air Force Intelligence (including the National
Reconnaissance Office)

7. State Department Bureau of Intelligence and Research

8. Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Security
Division
NW.88608 Docld:32989530 Page 8
62-116375-.
ENCLOSURE

9. Atomic Energy Commission Division of Intelligence

10. Treasury Department Intelligence Division

The Committee would also like to know the following:

"Where in the federal budget does each or any portion
of the above-mentioned amounts appear? Indicate to
the closest possible degree of specificity, designating
such amounts by the accounts or line items, or combina-
tions of accounts or line items, under which the
amounts are included, and any language in the budget
which explains or indicates the purpose or purposes
for which such amounts will be spent.

"What is the legislative authority for each of the
above-listed appropriations and expenditures?"

We would appreciate your reviewing these items and responding at
your earliest convenience. We have advised members of your staff of
this request. We will be happy to work directly with your staff to meet
this congressional need. To the extent that any of this information is
not available, we will need, in writing, the legislative citations or
precedents for not supplying the data.
i
Sincerely yours,
Skating
D. L. Scantlebury
Director

NW_88608 Docld:32989530 Page 9
-2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 57
5010-106

UNITED STATES GOERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : MR. CALLAHAN

FROM : J. B. ADAMS

DATE: 3/7/75

SUBJECT: CONGRESSIONAL TESTIMONY

#Moels.
ALL INFORMATION ПОЛТАΙΠ
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE

Mr. Kelley asked that in connection with future festimony
we prepare two papers. One is to be a dissertation about our procedures
in opening and closing domestic security cases, including the application
of criteria for opening such cases and determining how long the cases
should remain in a pending status The second paper is to involve the
jurisdiction of the President to authorize unusual investigative techniques
in foreign intelligence investigations such as wiretaps, microphones
and surreptitious entries. This should include a definition of his
Constitutional powers and the derivative authority invested in the Attorney
General and the FBI.

In connection with these two papers, it is desired that there be
coordination between the Intelligence Division, Legal Counsel Division
and writers in the External Affairs Division, who should participate in the
basic research and discussions and prepare the final paper outlining the
research and analysis of the other two divisions.

Mr. Kelley's purpose is to have papers available on various topics
such as this which reduce technical dissertations to a style which can be
used for argumentative purposes in an easily understood form. The types
of questions he receives generally do not require a highly technical response
but a concise presentation of the issues involved and the propriety of our
procedures.

ACTION:

For information.

62-116395-
NOT RECORDED
46 APR 17 1975,
MAR 28 1975
:
A
JBA:ams
(6)
1 Mr. Jenkins
1Mr. Moore
1 Mr. Mintz
1Mr. Wannall
Tilinddock, Dive & Lift DING
1075
A8 D2589530 Page 10
ει
22
62-415-2
ORIGINAL FILED
in anand

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962, EDITION
GSA GEN. RIG. N 27
5010-106
1

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel James

DATE: 3-6-75

SUBJECT HOUSE GOVERNMENT INFORMATION IN
Il Rights
Obcommittee on GreenMEN,
Eril
#MOR16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 11-7-00 BYSP-2AC
INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS SUBCOMMITTEE
THE GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS COMMITTEE
HEARING
HEARING, MARCH 5, 1975"
BYSP-2ALMITG
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm
Director Sec'y

@Senate Select Commitee, ON INTELLIGENCE Activities Fo
This Committee which is chaired by Congresswoman Bella S.
Abzug (D-N.Y.) convened on March 5th to hear testimony from Director of
the CIA, William E. Colby. It was brought out at the hearing that the
Central Intelligence Agency had furnished information in their files pertaining
to Congresswoman Abzug the previous evening, March 4th, with the exception
of information which could not be disclosed without compromising a sensitive
source or intelligence gathering procedure. Director Colby also advised
Congresswoman Abzug in response to her inquiry that the source of some
litems that she was in receipt of had been concealed because it was from
another agency. Colby did not disclose the identity of that agency.

ORIGINAL FILED IN

Congresswoman Abzug asked Colby, and he agreed to
communicate with that agency and have them contact Congresswoman Abzug
concerning the aforementioned information. By way of background according
to a memorandum captioned "Bella S. Abzug (D-N.Y.)," dated 3-4-75, the
CIA asked for and received permission from this Bureau to release the PORTION
contents of unclassified reports furnished the CIA by the FBI and could be
furnished by the CIA to Congresswoman Abzug. From the remarks made
by Director Colby, it would appear that the topic of discussion between
Congresswoman Abzug and Director Colby pertained to these documents
and that we can expect some communication from the CIA in accordance
with Congresswoman Abzug's request.
RE

During the question and answer portion of Director Colby's
testimony, Director Colby stated that the CIA would obtain information
pertaining to American citizens in only two instances in the future. (1) Infor-
mation developed incidental to their surveillance of a foreign target
1- Mr. Adams
1Mr. Wannall
1-Mr. Mintz
PVD:dkg (8) <4
AP AP5 51975
emk
MAY 28 1975
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 11
1- Mr. McCreight
1- Mr. Daly
1-Mr. Hotis
62-116395
NOT RECORDED
MAY 2.8 1975
21 APR 1 1975
LEGAD
CONTINUED
دوم

Legal Counsel to J. B. Adams Memo
Re: HOUSE GOVERNMENT INFORMATION IN
INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS SUBCOMMITTEE

(2) Investigations conducted pursuant to FBI requests. He was asked
what the CIA's response would be to an improper request for investigation
concerning American citizens. He indicated that they would refuse such
a request and had done so in the past. The implication being from the
context of the question that the FBI had made an improper request of
the CIA.

In view of the wide scope of authority enjoyed by
Congresswoman Abzug's Committee and the realistic expectation the
FBI will have to testify before this Committee, it would be to our advantage
for the Intelligence Division, through liaison, with the Central Intelligence
Agency to obtain a transcript of this Committee hearing so that same
might be reviewed and possible questions contained therein concerning
FBI investigations be analyzed and responses prepared.

RECOMMENDATION:

Intelligence Division take action in line with the above.

дом
wful
NW88608 Docld:32989530 Page 12
- 2-

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)
#MDR16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEL
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 425/00 PYSP2ALN/76
(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

In Our Opinion sh
Assign Congress
To Hunt Bombers

Here we go again.

The bombing of a State Department
restroom and followup phone call from
someone calling itself the "Weather Un-.
derground" is reminiscent of times past.

The bombers are apparently protest-
ing any economic aid to non-Communists
in South Vietnam and Cambodia.

There's a certain irony in the timing.
At the very moment the CIA and FBI are
being raked over the coals by self-right-
eous members of Congress, a radical
group like the ones under surveillance
In the late '60s and early '70s pulls off a
ferrorist act.
:
We wouldn't blame the FBI for turn--
ing the investigation of the latest bomb-
ing over to the congressional committee
investigating government surveillance,
Let the legislators handle it.

Some measure of watchfulness must
the maintained over agencies like the
IBI and CIA. The repugnant aspect of
soc. Dir.
Dep. A Adm.
Asst. Dip
Admin
Corp. Syst.
Ext. Mirs
File & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspect
Intell
ست
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Jav..
Treining
un.
Telephone Km.
Director Sec'y

(Indicate page, name of
newspaper, city and state.) state.);
Pg. 4
The Star Beacon
Ashtabula, Ohio

Sensticky-755

Many of these congressmen and sen-
Jators knew bloody well what these agen-
bies were doing in years past, but never
raised a whisper, let alone a howl. Now!,
with home-grown terrorism seemingly
behind us, the legislators play dumb
and feign shock or outrage over what
they call "disturbing revelations."

You can bet if a bomb went off in the
Senate or House chambers, Congress.
would call out the FBI, CIA and any other
agency versed in intelligence gathering.
"ate:
What's more, the legislators would. dition:
wonder why the FBI and CIA couldn't uthor:
immediately produce the 10 most likely
suspects.

"Where's your sürveillance mechan-
ism," some senator would demand.

What we have, folks, is Congress at
it all is congressmen leading the media its hypocritical worst.
bandwagon to roast the agencies.

F-32
O MAR 3 11975
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 13
62.116395 A
CHICA
NOT RECORDED
40 MAR 28 1975
1-30-75
ditor: Don Rowley
itle: Miscellaneous

haracter: Public relation
Matters
or
Issification:
mitting Office: Cleveland
Being Investigated

ORIGINAL
184-5866-A

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSAN.. REG. NO. 27
5010-106

GOUNITED STATES GORNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. W. R. Wannalia

FROM : W. 0.0Cregar

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75
1 - Mr. Callahan
1 - Mr. Adams

DATE: 3/21/75

1 - Each Assistant Directordent.

1 - Mr. Cregar
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. Alav
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
DATE 9/26/00 BI SP-ZALMI JTG
ALL TINTOTMATION CONTAINER
19 מיותרת UCLASSIFIED
BY
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell. FEE
Laboratory
Legal Coun
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
作
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting of
the Executive Committee of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on
Congressional Review of the Intelligence Community, (hereafter
referred to as the Group), held at CIA Headquarters on the even-
ing of 3/20/75.

This meeting was chaired by Mr. Colby in his role as
the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI). In attendance were
Mr. Philip Buchen, Counsel to the President; Deputy AG Laurence
Silberman; Associate Deputy AG James Wilderotter; Mr. John
Clarke, Associate Deputy to the DCI, as well as officials from
Defense, Treasury and the Energy Research and Development
Administration (formerly the Atomic Energy Commission).

The meeting was called to have all agencies identify
(1) Types of information that could not be disclosed to Con-
gressional Committees, (2) Types of information the disclosure
of which was arguable, and (3) Types of information that could
be disclosed to Congressional Committees. The FBI was asked to
lead off the presentation. The Group was informed that we were
reluctant to discuss sensitive matters in such a large group
Jand we asked that the Group be reduced to a select few people
who would have to have knowledge of sensitive FBI operations.
After some discussion, the White House agreed this was a good
procedure and it now appears that Mr. Buchen of the White House,
one of his associates and probably Mr. Silberman will arrange
at some future date to discuss the sensitive type information
embraced in the above three questions. No definite date was
set for this review and presumably either Mr. Clarke's office
or Mr. Silberman will be in contact with the Bureau regarding
this.
REC-28 62-116395-49
Enclosed herewith is a paper prepared by Mr. Clarke
which attempts to outline a course the DCI can take in coordinating
inquiries from the Senate and House Select Committees. Although
1 APR 9 1975

Enclosure
WOC:ebc
(17)
4.
2.APR 161975
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 14
CONTINUED - OVER
5-1006

Memorandum for Mr. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY 75

this paper was on the agenda for this meeting, it was never
discussed because of the length of meeting, concluding at
approximately 8:30 p.m. Following the meeting, Assistant
Director Mintz and Mr. Cregar had a discussion with Mr. Wilderotter.
During this discussion Mr. Mintz pointed out to Mr. Wilderotter
that it was imperative that this Executive Committee clearly
define how responses to the Select Committees would be coordinated
and how matters dealing with policy would be cleared with the
White House. Mr. Wilderotter described the following procedure.
All questions received by agencies of the Intelligence Community
from Select Committees would be furnished to Mr. Clarke. As a
matter of fact, Mr. Wilderotter advised a copy of the questions
received by the Department from the Senate Select Committee
requiring responses from the FBI had already been turned over to
Mr. Clarke by Mr. Wilderotter. Upon receipt of a copy of such
questions, Mr. Clarke would review them and attempt to identify
which questions involve policy matters of interest to the White
House. He would then inform all agencies involved in such a
response that such a question involved policy. Those agencies
would be obliged to discuss the response between themselves and.
arrive at a coordinated answer. That answer would then be
furnished to Mr. Clarke who would in turn make a decision as to
whether it should go forward to the White House forresolution.
Answers to questions which did not involve policy matters would
also have to be furnished to Mr. Clarke to insure that there was
some coordinating mechanism in the Community and to insure that this
mechanism was in possession of all questions and all answers which
might be provided the Select Committees.

Mr. Mintz made it quite clear to Mr. Wilderotter that
this was not the Bureau's understanding of how the coordination
process would work and was of the belief that no other agency
represented on the Executive Committee was aware of this procedure.
Mr. Wilderotter was asked to develop such a procedure for pre-
sentation to the Group to insure everybody was in agreement as to
how this process would work.

On the morning of 3/21/75, Mr. Clarke advised that
as a result of the meeting during the evening of 3/20/75 he was
completely confused and was at a loss as to how the coordination
process was going to work. He advised Mr. Cregar that he would
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 15
- 2 -
CONTINUED - OVER

Memorandum for Mr. Wannall
RE:
SENSTUDY 75

attempt to get some clarification and hopefully be in a
position to provide some information as to how the White House,
Mr. Silberman and Mr. Wilderotter wanted to proceed.

It is the opinion of both Mr. Mintz and Mr. Wannall
that the Bureau must immediately set up a Task Force to handle
the tremendous amount of information that will be required
from the FBI, including the coordination of our responses with
other agencies who might be involved in such an answer, as well
as to insure that both the Department of Justice and the White
House are fully informed. We can anticipate very short deadlines
and requests for information that are not readily retrievable
from Bureau records without considerable research involving
several divisions in the Bureau.

ACTION:

That a Task Force be immediately created within the
Bureau to facilitate the collation of information as well as
the coordination of such information responsive to the requests
from Select Committees of the Congress.
we can
Mens blared anticipate receiving
Curacle Mans
1bcu
appears we are
Jeabling ourselves
to quick response-
Why caich we get
an agreement as
has
to a reasonable.
esponse time-
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 16
For
ليمن

Note: Principal responsibility for the
Task Force would be the Intelligence Division
in terms of personnel and collection and revient
of information and documents, however, an
individual should be designato in each otvor
division as contactsto handle ricerpt of
requists of the division and to expedito
designs o
from his division. Those designa
be briefed as to the roles of the Senate
and House Select committees ind thing
Urgency of the requests anticip
Div. should consider development of Spal
Services that would assist in this
Legal Counsel will continue to deal with
the committees and help elsewitre as necessor 1.
-3-
дта

T
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF

20 March 1975
:
This represents a working paper. It attempts
to outline a course the DCI can take in dealing
with the Senate/House Select Committees¹
inquiries. The details herein have not yet
been discussed or coordinated with representa-
tives of the Ad Hoc Group of USIB.
?

John M. Clarke
AD/DCI/IC
ACTION

Cregene
#MDR16:
9/26/00 SP-2ALMITG
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 17.
1962..116395-49

A. RESPONSIBILITIES AND SUPPORT

In treating with Congressional inquiries, the Director of Central
Intelligence will provide leadership to the Intelligence Community.
The Associate Deputy to the DCI for the Intelligence Community,
supported by the Intelligence Community Staff, will provide the
principal staff direction and congressional liaison for the DCI in these
matters. He will serve as a focal point for coordination among Community
entities and assure communication with the Executive Office as appropriate.
The IC Staff with the assistance of USIB-Agencies will provide legal,.
security, substantive, and registry support structured so as to assure
Cappropriate support to the DCI and the Intelligence Community. The
AD/DCI/IC will chair an Ad Hoc Coordinating Group of USIB as a
principal mechanism for exchanging information and coordinating USIB
activities with respect to the inquiry where needed. The AD/DCI/IC and
the USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating Group will establish periodic and special
time sensitive reporting to keep the DCI, the USIB principals, and involved
Executive Branch agencies advised on USIB Agencies' liaison relationships
with the Select Committees and on substantive exchanges in response to
Select Committee inquiries. Where useful, common standards and procedures
will be developed by the USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating Group.

B. COORDINATION

1. Physical security is proceeding well. The Chairman of the Security
Committee of USIB has been assigned as the principal Intelligence Community
officer on physical security and clearance matters. Agreements have been
reached with the Senate Select Committee on physical security standards.
These standards have been provided to the House Select Committee Staff.
The Senate has arranged for central facilities which meet the physical
security standards and has appointed a full-time security officer who will
provide certification of personnel clearances. The House at the present
time is not planning central facilities and we understand will be dispersed
in at least three different locations.

Discussion of classified information will occur outside of the
security-approved Committee rooms and particularly in the offices of the
members of the Select Committee. Agreement has been reached that the FBI
will approach the House and Senate Staff Directors and offer technical sweep
services for the Congressional offices involved.
NW 88608 Docld:32989530 Page 18
ANCLOSE:
62:116395-44

2. Personnel security investigations on Select Committee Staff are
under way by the FBI. It is understood that upon completion of Staff
investigations, the Select Committee Chairman will certify to the DCI
the Top Secret clearances of Committee Staff. The DCI, through his
Intelligence Community Staff, will pass along the certification to the
security elements of the respective agencies. Compartmented clearance
arrangements and certification also have been agreed with the Senate Select
Committee Staff. Similar arrangements have been discussed with the House
Select Committee Staff.

3. Secrecy agreements for the Senate Select Committee Staff employees :.
are being drafted and the AD/DCI/IC, supported by the CIA General Counsel
and the Associate Deputy Attorney General, will negotiate similar arrange-
ments with the House. The DCI policy is to insist upon secrecy agreements..

4. Arrangements will be established by the USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating
Group for the recording of documents, testimony and transcripts, and for
procedures to protect sources and methods which may be contained in the
material flowing to the Seleci Cuimiliees from all agencies. A cenirai
index service will be provided by the Intelligence Community Staff to serve
the DCI and USIB Agencies. The following describes the general content
of this central index.

a. All requests received by USIB Agencies from the