File #:
62-116395

Serial Scope:
586- Bulky

NW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

62-
95
HQ-116359
Serial 586
BULKY

62-HQ-116359-E586
FBI - CENTRAL RECORDS CENTER
HQ - HEADQUARTERS
BOX 3565

Class / Case # Sub Vol. Serial #
0062 116395 1 586 ONLY
2/13/85777
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page00474

#3565

INSPECTION

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
AUGUST 17 - SEPTEMBER 9, 1971

NWW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 3

1USDECTION
8/1-9/0/71
RETAIN COPY

Recommend entire document be classified "Secret,"
XGDS 1, 2, 3.

Portions recommended for excision from attached have
been underlined in red or bracketed in rea in left margin.

Generally, criteria for excision were:
1. Information which could identify sources or
sensitive techniques
2. Names of individuals or organizations whose
privacy requires protection
3. Information which would reveal our overall success
or lack of success in a given investigative area
4. Information from "Third Agencies" or friendly
foreign agencies
5. Identities of Bureau personnel below the Section
Chier level

The adequacy of Personnel Sections, in general,
disclose the extent of our commitment in specific areas of
counterintelligence activity. We have given the Committee
Administrative Division figures regarding total manpower
involved in security investigations but, to my knowledge, we
have not given them a breakdown as to here these personnel
are assigned. A policy decision is necessary as to whether we
Vant to pinpoint, through release of "Adequacy of Personnel"
sections of these inspection reports, precisely how much or
ho little manpower we have on specific types of investigations.

It is questionable whether the information regarding
criminal cases in the San Francisco report is germane to the
Committee's inquiry. It would not seem improper to me to
delete all references to criminal matters and merely substitute
a page saying that "pages to
relate to criminal
investigations."
-

KW88608 Docld:32989638 Page 4
ン

TABLE OF CONTENTS

NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 5

TABLE OF CONTENTS

SPECIFIC DIVISION OPERATIONS Page
Ellsberg Case 1
East Coast Conspiracy 23

ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Internal Security Section 31
Research Section 39
New Left Section 43
Espionage Section 57
Extremist Intelligence Section 66
Nationalities Intelligence Section 74

SURVEYS, PROJECTS AND/OR INTENSIFICATION
PROGRAMS
Security Index Program (Basic Revolutionary
Organizations) 89
:
Counterintelligence - White Hate Groups 91
Thumbnail Sketch Program 93
Security Informant Program (Basic Revolutionary
and New Left Organizations) 94
Security Index Program 97

NW 88608 Docid:32989638 Page 6

Surveys, Projects and/or Intensification Programs (Continued) Page
Emergency Detention Program 97
}
Technical and Microphone Surveillances 98
Survey Regarding Potential For Racial Violence 99
New Left Movement 101
Key Activist Program 105
Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). 107
Worker Student Alliance (WSA) 107
The Venceremos Brigade 110
PROSAB 110
ALEM Program 114
BANPOP Program 115
CANIL Program 116
COKMA Program 117
DESECO Program 119
East West Exchange Program 121
Radio and Technical Equipment
Purchased by the Soviets 123
Black Extremist Matters 125
Black Nationalist Movement 127
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 7

Page
Surveys, Projects and/or Intensification Programs (Continued)
Black Panther Party 132
Black Revolutionary Party 136
Congress of African Peoples (CAP) 137
International Black Workers Congress, aka Black
Workers Congress 139
Junta of Militant Organizations 140
Nation of Islam 142
Republic of New Africa 144
Student National Coordinating Committee (SNCC) 146
Communist Influence of Black Extremist Groups 148
Key Black Extremist Program 151
Extremist. Informants 152
Ghetto Informants 154
Counterintelligence Program - Black Extremists 156
Name Checks of Aliens Holding Diplomatic and
International Organization Visas 158
Communist Coverage Along the Mexican Border BOCOV 159
Security Index - Cuba 161
American Repatriate Program 164
Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries 165
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 8

Surveys, Projects and/or Intensification Programs (Continued) Page
International Organizations - Dangerous Aliens of Nations
Outside the Soviet Bloc 167
Chinese Aliens Entering the U. S.; Chinese Entering the
U. S. Claiming U. S. Citizenship 169
Counterintelligence Operations Against Chinese Communist
Intelligence Activities in the United States (CHICOIN) 172
Visitors to Communist China and Contacts by United
States Residents of Chinese Diplomatic Establishments 173
LEGAL ATTACHE OFFICES FOREIGN LIAISON
-
Bern 178
Bonn 179
Buenos Aires 180
Hong Kong 180
London 181
Madrid 182
Mexico City 183
Ottawa 184
Paris 185
Rome 185
Tokyo 186
Beirut 187
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 9

Page
Legal Attache Offices - Foreign Liaison (Continued)
Caracas 188
Copenhagen 190
La Paz 191
Managua 192
Tel Aviv 193
Chinese Communist Activities 200
Subversive Activities Control Board 213
ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS
Dividing Domestic Intelligence Division Into Two
Divisions 215
Antiriot Laws and Bombing Matters 224
Computation of Case and Work Load in the Domestic
Intelligence Division 239
Potential Double Agent Program 244
PERSONNEL MATTERS
Adequacy of Personnel - Agent 249
Adequacy of Personnel - Clerical 300
SUGGESTION MEMORANDUM
:
Payments to Security Informants and Confidential
Sources 314
-NW-88608-Doeld+32989638-Rage-1.0

Suggestion Memorandum (Continued)
:
Page
Survey Concerning Computerization of Security
Informant Indices 321
Supervision and Control of Security Informant
Development and Coverage by Internal Security and
New Left Sections
1
324
1
Utilization of Inserts in Reporting Investigative Results
in Criminal Cases by Legal Attaches 32.5
Black Nationalist Photograph Album 327
Young Socialist Alliance Internal Security - Communist
(Trotskyist) 329
Automation of Intelligence Data re New Left and
Extremist Individuals 331
Preparation of Interview Reports (FD-302) in Security
Type Investigations 334
Black Extremist Activities In Penal Institutions -
Extremist Matters 340
!
NW88608 Roald 32989638 Page 11

Specific Division™

i
ELLSBERG CASE 4-A-3

INSPECTOR E. S. MILLER: This case is currently being afforded
preferred supervisory and investigative
attention. You are requested to furnish the following information about the
case:

1. Brief narrative of basic investigation involving Ellsberg and provide
current status.

2. You have advised this case may be part of a greater conspiracy. Advise
what part you feel this and other leaks may be. It is realized the broad aspects
of this case may be yet unconfirmed conjecture; however, furnish narrative
of conjecture.

3. Advise what progress we have made and anticipate making in projecting
our investigation into areas described in number two.

4. Advise as best you can at this point how "big" this investigation may
become from a supervisory standpoint and indicate what impact an overall
successful investigation may have on Governmental processes in our system of
Government.

5. In regard to the administration of this investigation handled by the
Nationalities Intelligence Section and due to certain intricacies of supervision
the following information is requested individually from both Division Head
and Section Chief:

a. At the outset of the investigation, what instructions were issued
Section handling case?

b. What subsequent instructions or suggestions have been
issued?

c. What have been the manpower requirements of the case thus far
and how have you worked these out with this Section?

d. Division Head and Section Chief requested to make any further
comments considered appropriate at this time.

Comments of Assistant Director Brennan and Section Chief Wannall requeste
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION
POME
8/19/71
NW 88608 Dold:329896384 PAg813
1

ELLSBERG CASE 4-A-3

SECTION CHIEF W. R. WANNALL whw
NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE SECTION
:
1. Initial investigation by Bureau opened 1/20/70 based on informa-
tion from step-mother of subject's former wife to the effect that subject, with
his children, took papers from his office at Rand Corporation in Santa Monica,
California, and copied them with intent that they be made available for Senators
Fulbright and Goodell. This information had come to knowledge of Carol
Ellsberg through the Ellsberg children. Initial investigation continued through
9/25/70 when basic facts were presented to Department of Justice with note that
no further action would be taken in the absence of a specific request from the
Department. No such request was received.

On 6/13/71 "The New York Times" commenced publishing a series
of articles purporting to report on the history of the U. S. decision-making process
concerning Vietnam policies for the period 1945-1967. "The New York Times"
claimed the articles were based on a study. later identified as a 47-volume history
entitled "United States - Vietnam Relations During the Period 1945-1967, "
commonly known as the "McNamara Study." The "McNamara Study" was
prepared beginning in 1967 and was classified "Top Secret."

On 6/15/71 the Attorney General requested FBI to conduct all necessary
investigation into the matter relating to the publication of classified information
by ""The New York Times." Our 1970 investigation and initial reports from
sources obtained in instant matter pinpointed Ellsberg as the prime suspect
responsible for the leak of classified data to news media. Extensive investigation
at Los Angeles pinned down the identities of individuals present in October,
1969, when Ellsberg duplicated classified documents available to him through his
employment at Rand Corporation in Santa Monica. Also revealed were his own
statements to his former wife that he, in fact, was converting the classified
documents to his own use to furnish them to various Congressional figures. The
Los Angeles investigation has resulted in Ellsberg's current indictment alleging
violation of Section 793(e), Title 18, U. S. Code (unauthorized possession of
documents involved and unlawful retention of same) and Section 641, Title 18
(conversion of the documents to his own use). The Los Angeles investigation was
the sole basis for this indictment and served as the basis for current imprisonment
on charge of contempt of court of Anthony J. Russo who was present on one
occasion when Ellsberg allegedly duplicated material in his possession.

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION
8/23/71
WRW:ams
4-A-3
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 14

2-

Investigation at Washington, D. C., has pinned down Ellsberg's access
to the documents in question and has additionally revealed his early change from
"hawk" to "dove." It has also revealed his contacts with individuals at high
levels in Federal Government attempting to persuade them to put before American
public details of decisions underlying the U. S. policy in Vietnam.

Investigation at Boston has uncovered activity by Neil and Susan
Sheehan, employees of "The New York Times, " in late March, 1971. This
activity has included extensive details of sessions where duplication of portions
of the "McNamara Study" were involved. Revealed have been details identifying
the printing companies utilized by the Sheehans, considerable travel between
these companies and apartments available to or utilized by Ellsberg. We have
uncovered extensive detail of Ellsberg's contacts from his Cambridge,
Massachusetts, residence with members of the news media. Also revealed has
been contact by Ellsberg with factions of the New Left and anti-Vietnam peace groups.

We have recently expanded our investigation in attempt to uncover details
of dissemination of the "McNamara Study" by Ellsberg to other newspapers in
which articles appeared attributed to the "McNamara Study." This investigation
has revealed at least three newsmen from the Washington, D. C., bureaus of
the newspapers involved were in the Boston and/or Cambridge area during the week
immediately prior to Ellsberg's surrender on 6/28/71. We have learned that at
least one newspaper had been contacted by an unknown individual in Boston who had
offered the "McNamara Study" instructing that if the newspaper involved wished to
avail itself of the offer, the classified documents could be picked up in Boston
after contacting a given telephone number in that area for more detailed instructions.
We are pursuing this facet of the investigation vigorously to pin down exact activities
of the newspaper personnel involved and when this is done, we contemplate
interviewing them for additional details.

Extensive investigation has been afforded the possibility that Ellsberg
benefited from considerable assistance from other individuals in his attempt to
disseminate the "McNamara Study" to the news media. Along these lines we have
detected early reports of Ellsberg's cooperation with elements of the War Resistors
League and have identified individuals in that organization described by Ellsberg
as the principal influences on his change to a militant opposition to the U. S. -
Vietnam policies. Investigation is continuing along these lines to establish if any
individuals in these dissident groups may have assisted Ellsberg in his alleged
violations of the statutes noted.

A relative of Mr. Haldeman at the White House, France Raine, reported
that while attending a football game in Los Angeles in October, 1970, he overheard
a conversation between two men sitting near him whom he believed to be prominent
3
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 15

-3
-
in the Business Executives Movement for Vietnam (BEM). This conversation
involved the plan on the part of an unidentified individual to leak secret informa-
tion to the press in the Spring of 1971, with the unidentified individual being
mentioned as being an employee of Rand Corporation and having formerly served
as an advisor to Dr. Kissinger at the White House. Also mentioned by the
conversants was the plan on the part of two White House aides to resign their
positions sometime during the Summer of 1971 and to make anti-Administration
revelations at that time regarding U. S. Vietnam policy. Ellsberg was known to
have appeared on at least two occasions as a speaker for BEM functions in
Los Angeles and Washington, D. C. A close associate of his in Los Angeles was
a former leader of the BEM chapter in that city. We have intensified our investiga-
tion of BEM and conducted extensive investigation to pin down identities of persons
seated near Raine during the game in question. We are continuing our investigation
along these lines to pinpoint a possible conspiracy existing as early as October,
1970, with ramifications of anti-Administration activity and revelation of classified
information.

We have recently received from Attorney General clarification of the
areas in which we can conduct investigation in this matter and, as a result, are
extending our interviews into news media circles where we feel we can uncover
individuals who will cooperate with us in revealing details of the Ellsberg
revelations and any conspiracy that may have existed involving him and others to
expose to public scrutiny the classified information involved in this case.

2. At the outset of this investigation Assistant Director Brennan spoke
at a Division Chiefs' Conference and also directly to the Section Chief, Nationalities
Intelligence Section, regarding the possibility of a wide-scale conspiracy in which
Ellsberg could be involved. His observations along these lines were recorded in
a memorandum to all Division Chiefs dated 7/23/71 and captioned "Re: Organizations
Survey (Priorities and Manpower)." In this memorandum he commented upon the
fact that the Ellsberg case might be a landmark in historical significance in view
of the long-range potential regarding Governmental operations and the FBI's role
in rel ation thereto. He stated that the leak in this case represented a deliberate
and determined effort on the part of certain individuals to seriously disrupt and
destroy the Government's capacity to carry out effectively its foreign policy in
various areas.

Mr. Brennan noted that the past 15 to 20 years had witnessed the evolution
of a new breed of fanatics who were determined to disrupt and destroy Governmental
operations and to alter this country's foreign policy. He further noted that the
movement supported by these fanatics bordered on treason which must be dealt
with if our current form of Government is to survive.
4
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 16

No
During the early stages of the investigation in this case it became
quite evident that Ellsberg had received assistance in getting into the hands
of various newspapers the "McNamara Study." He admitted as much on
6/28/71 in responding to questions raised by reporters when he surrendered
himself at the Boston Courthouse following issuance of a complaint charging
him with violating the Espionage Statute. Accordingly, the thrust of our
investigation has been directed toward identifying any individual or individuals
or organization that may have assisted or conspired with Ellsberg. It was
noted that developments had indicated that at least part of the "McNamara Study"
was reportedly in the possession of the Institute for Policy Studies and that
while a page-by-page review of the Bureau's file on that Institute had not
revealed any information concerning Ellsberg, we had developed material in the
Ellsberg investigation showing connections between him and some of the Institute
employees.

On 7/6/71 the Director prepared a memorandum for Messrs. Tolson,
to
excising Sullivan, Brennan and Bishop to advise that the Honorable H. R. Haldeman,
Assistant to the President, had called the Director about the Ellsberg case.
The Director stated that Mr. Haldeman said the President wanted a report
on the case immediately to bring him up to date and then to keep him filled in,
and that the President was particularly interested in the complicity of individuals.
:
On 7/6/71 with the Director's approval a conference was held with
Departmental attorneys during which Assistant Attorney General Robert C.
Mardian explained that information coming to his attention from Departments
of Defense and State officials indicated that a group at each of these Departments
may be involved in a ring to pass out classified information. He said that while
this may or may not be related to the Ellsberg case he was most desirous of
getting a complete rundown on Ellsberg's background to determine if any of his
associates may have come under suspicion in connection with other leaks. He
also said the President was vitally concerned not only with the Ellsberg case but
with all aspects of leaks of classified information of the Executive Branch.

We have not developed any hard evidence confirming that a wide-spread
organized conspiracy exists to leak Government information. We are aware,
however, of one thread common to certain of these leaks. That is, individuals
such as Ellsberg, who were either bitterly opposed to the U. S. - Vietnam policy
or in disagreement with other major foreign policy issues, have set themselves
up above the law, claiming the right to decide what should be released to the
public regardless of Executive Branch classification assigned to information.
Many of these individuals in common with Ellsberg have been affiliated with one
or more of the so-called "think tanks," such as Rand Corporation, have served
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 17
کی

5-
:,
in a number of sensitive positions in the Executive Branch of the Government
and to a large extent are acquainted with one another, at least on a professional
basis. Communications to appropriate field offices dated 7/7 and 12/71 contained
instructions regarding the necessity for exploring the various facets of this
situation.

The conspiracy aspects of the Ellsberg case as revealed to date are
set forth in Item 3 below.
...
3. Speculation that Daniel Ellsberg conspired with others in obtaining,
reproducing and disclosing the "McNamara Study" has some basis in public
remarks made by him on 6/28/71 indicating that "It is implicit that other
individuals helped out in various ways, " and that he and the press share the
responsibility for the newspapers' obtaining the study. We have, however,
pursued the possibility of conspiracy from every conceivable angle and while
investigation has produced some circumstantial evidence to support this theory,
we have not found grounds to indicate existence of an over-all plot or conspiracy,
threading its way throughout Ellsberg's actions.
:
Count One of a two-count indictment returned by a Federal grand jury
on 6/28/71 charges Ellsberg with unauthorized possession, access to, and
control over copies of what, in effect, was the "McNamara Study," from about
September, 1969, to approximately October, 1969, while Count Two of this
indictment charges that during the same approximate time span Ellsberg
willfully, knowingly and unlawfully converted to his own use copies of these
documents. We have established Ellsberg legally had access to the Study in the
course of his employment with Rand Corporation at Santa Monica, California,
but that he also obtained and had in his possession 18 volumes of a preliminary
draft of the Study for at least nine months without the knowledge of the Top Secret
Control Officer at Rand in Santa Monica. Failure of Rand employees in Washington.
D. C., and at Santa Monica to adhere to established, in-house security procedures
accounts for the fact Ellsberg was able to conceal his possession of these 18
volumes, and while over-all possession by Ellsberg of the Study and its
preliminary draft volumes continues to be closely examined, no evidence exists
of conspiracy at this point of the case.........

Count Two of the aforementioned indictment, relating to conversion
of these documents, is founded on information that Ellsberg reproduced a large
quantity of classified documents in October, 1969, at the office of one Lynda Sinav.
in the Los Angeles area. Ellsberg's two children, present at this reproduction
session, have identified individuals who assisted Ellsberg in this task, but
:
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 18

6
i
interviews of these persons have developed nothing to indicate they were aware
of the nature of the items being reproduced or of what use Ellsberg intended
to make of the copies reproduced. Anthony Russo, a fellow employee of
Ellsberg's at Rand in Santa Monica, would have been in an excellent position to
have been aware of the ultimate purpose of Ellsberg's actions but has refused to
talk to the Federal grand jury in Los Angeles, and is currently in jail for
contempt of court relating to this refusal.

Subsequent to the duplicating of documents in October, 1969, Ellsberg,
by his own statements, claims to have made efforts to furnish copies of these
documents to Senator J. William Fulbright and former Senator Charles E. Goodell,
: and Senator George S. McGovern may also have been approached by Ellsberg
concerning making these documents public. Representative Paul N. McCloskey,
Jr., is also known to be in possession of documents which he publicly admits
were given to him by Ellsberg. Data available concerning this phase of Ellsberg's
actions also fails to indicate he acted in concert with anyone.

On 6/13/71 "The New York Times" published the first of a series
of articles purporting to have been based on the "McNamara Study, '" and a
number of other newspapers in the U. S. subsequently printed similar articles.
Investigation has placed Neil Sheehan, a reporter for "The New York Times," in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, during March and April, 1971, under an assumed
name, and we have determined Sheehan and his wife engaged in a number of
frantic copying sessions of documents during the period 3/21-23/71. Four
blurred Xerox copies discarded during this duplicating have been identified by
the National Security Agency as being reproductions of pages appearing in the
"McNamara Study." It is highly probable Sheehan and Ellsberg cooperated closely
in actions which enabled "The New York Times" to obtain the documents utilized
in articles published by this newspaper and we have recently uncovered evidence
indicating representatives of at least three other newspapers which have published
articles based on the "McNamara Study" were in the Boston area in June, 1971,
for the apparent purpose of obtaining copies of these documents. A source closely
connected with one of these newspapers has advised that his newspaper obtained
the documents after receiving a telephone call from an unknown individual who
instructed that a reporter from the newspaper go to Cambridge and make the
necessary arrangements to obtain them by calling a certain, unidentified telephone
number. Investigation subsequently placed this reporter in Cambridge, but we
have, to date, been unsuccessful in determining who furnished him with the
material in question. While the newspapermen thus involved may have cooperated
with Ellsberg in various ways in order to obtain the desired documents,
available evidence does not suggest they conspired with him in carrying out the
disclosure of these documents, but rather took advantage of his offer to furnish
them with the material.
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 19
:

7
eake
We are, however, vigorously pursuing all leads relating to the
possession by "The New York Times" and other newspapers of the "McNamara
Study" and have proposed that the field be authorized to immediately initiate
interviews with friendly newsmen concerning this matter. We believe this area
of investigation offers excellent possibilities of effecting a major breakthrough
in this case.
:
There remains the suggestion Ellsberg may have received the coopera-
tion of or conspired with various New Left, anti-draft, anti-Vietnam war
elements, and this possibility has received the most penetrating examination.
We know Ellsberg to have been friendly with a number of individuals connected
with the Institute for Policy Studies (IPS) in Washington, D. C., and evidence
exists that the IPS has been in possession for some time of documents which may
be identical with the "McNamara Study." We have also learned, in tracing the
development of Ellsberg's thinking from "hawk" to "dove," that from August,
1969, he became increasingly associated with a number of the more prominent
anti-war exponents in this country, many of whom occupy important posts at
Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. We are in the
process of tying together all of this data, in an effort to surface, if possible,
any possible connection between these elements and Ellsberg in the disclosure
of the highly classified "McNamara Study," but information available to date
does not, as yet, substantiate or corroborate existence of a conspiracy in this
regard.

4. With particular regard to the President's concern expressed by
in. Mr. Haldeman to the Director, mentioned hereinbefore, with respect to the
:
:
complicity of individuals, and the instructions of the Attorney General that the
Bureau in each leak case identify the individuals responsible, it is quite clear
that we must resolve all allegations, especially those pertaining to possible
conspiracies, during the course of our inquiries. As noted in Item 1, our
inquiries have expanded to include not only the leak to "The New York Times"
but to encompass the eight other newspapers which carried portions of the
"McNamara Study.". Since its inception, the Ellsberg case has required expanding
supervisory attention here at the SOG.. Nine men are currently committed to the
case. There are no indications at this time that less supervisory attention will be
needed in the near future. In fact, all indications are that there may have to be
more commitments in this regard, particularly if the Department refers additional
leak matters to us for the intensive investigative attention which has been
requested in the past.

A successful investigation followed by a successful prosecution would
certainly have a very important impact on Governmental processes, particularly
:
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 20

8
within the Executive Branch of our Government. When the Supreme Court
refused to grant injunctions sought by the Executive Branch against newspapers
publishing the "McNamara Study, " this upheld the freedom of the press. The
question has not yet been litigated with respect to the right of the Executive
Branch to protect its secrets through its classification system.

Unless Ellsberg is prosecuted successfully, anyone within the
Executive Branch would apparently have the right to decide on his own initiative
what information he wishes to place in the public domain by turning the informa-
tion over to the newspapers. Much of the sensitive negotiations of the Executive
Branch with foreign countries is dependent upon the secrecy with which they
are carried out. If through a classification system or some other means the
Executive Branch is not able to preclude the unauthorized disclosure of its
secrets it is felt the Branch will be weakened to the extent that it cannot effectively
function on the national scene certainly, and probably on the domestic scene in
some instances. Thus, the structure of the Executive Branch might well collapse.

inter
An unsuccessful prosecution would buttress the considerable support,
particularly from the news media, for Ellsberg's contention that his disclosure
of the classified documents was basically motivated by conscience and by deep
concern that the public should be informed. It is closely related to the viewpoint
held by a small but growing minority that an individual is free to follow the dictates
of his conscience and to be the final arbiter of the validity of our criminal and
civil statutes. If this thesis were to be supported, then it could apply to murder
and bombings of Government and private institutions where such acts are dictated
by conscience. It could follow that the Legislative, Executive and Judicial
functions of the Nation are exercises in futility. This would be a road to anarchy.

From the above, it would appear that the outcome of the Ellsberg
case would have a direct bearing on the Executive Branch of our Government and
could affect the entire Governmental structure.
:
5(a). At the outset of the investigation, Assistant Director Brennan
instructed the Section Chief to afford special attention to this case and to let
him know of any manpower needs. He emphasized the importance of the case in
his mind and wanted it handled as a special.

Within a day or two Mr. Brennan introduced the Section Chief to
Departmental attorney James McGrath, who is a special assistant to Assistant
Attorney General Mardian. Mr. Brennan advised the Section Chief that McGrath
was the coordinator for Mardian of the various groups under Mardian engaged
in consideration of phases of the Ellsberg case. For example, he explained that
NW 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 21

9
;
one group headed by Departmental attorney John Martin, analyzed all investigative
results received by the Department in an effort to establish whether a case was
being made. Mr. Brennan advised the Section Chief that Mr. McGrath would be
in a position to furnish any information required by the Section Chief from the
Internal Security Division and instructed that copies of daily teletypes received
from our various offices be furnished through Mr. McGrath to the Internal Security
Division as they came in.
..5(b). Approximately two weeks after this case was instituted, the
Section Chief asked Mr. Brennan if he would brief both the Section Chief and the
Section Number One Man on his concept of the magnitude of this case and its
various ramifications. This was done and Mr. Brennan again emphasized the
need for following all facets on a special basis.

Following the conference with Departmental attorneys 7/6/71,
mentioned hereinbefore, Mr. Brennan summoned Inspector D. E. Moore and
Section Chief Wannall to his office and instructed that a "book" be prepared on
Ellsberg covering his activities and associates during a period of a couple of
years. He explained what he wanted in this book and provided for an Agent from
Research Section to be assigned full time on its compilation.

On 7/15/71 Mr. Brennan instructed that a copy of each teletype received
at the SOG on this case be furnished to him.
: On 7/28/71 Mr. Brennan summoned Inspector D. E. Moore, Section
Chief, Section Number One Man, and all Agents working on this case to his
office for a conference. In compliance with his request, he was briefed on
investigative results to date. He asked if serious consideration had been given
to the possibility that Ellsberg himself was not directly involved in turning over
the "McNamara Study" to "The New York Times, " and instructed that we look
into this phase of the matter very carefully.

On 8/2/71 Mr. Brennan summoned to his office the Section Chief and
Case Supervisor Wagoner for the purpose of introducing them to Mr. G. G
Liddey of the White House. He explained that Mr. Liddey was coordinating all
White House interest in this matter. Mr. Liddey pointed out that the White
House wanted this case handled as a "Bureau special" and that a letter from the
White House to that effect would be forwarded.
NW, 88608 Docld:32989638 Page 22

- 10 -
:
5(c). At the present time there are nine Agent Supervisors assigned
to this matter.

Investigation was instituted 6/15/71 and from then until 6/23/71
manpower assignments were handled within the Section.
2
On 6/23/71 two additional Agents were placed in the Section on a loan
basis and they were assigned to operational desks, as Agents permanently assigned
to those desks from within the Section were assigned to the McLek case.
:
On 6/28/71 an Agent was assigned on a loan basis from Extremist
Intelligence Section and this loan Agent has been rotated on a weekly basis
since. He has been utilized to cover an operational desk while one of the
regularly assigned Agents in the Section (H. J. Morgan) has been assigned
full time to this case.

On 7/8/71 an Agent from Research Section was assigned full time to
prepare a "book" on Ellsberg and has worked on this exclusively with the
exception of an ammual leave period of 8/2-13/71. IHe has not participated in any
other phase of the case on a day-to-day basis.

On 7/8/71 one man on weekly rotating basis was assigned temporarily
from the Espionage Section and continues to the present time. This loan Super-
visor has been utilized to cover an operational desk within the Section while the
regularly assigned Supervisor on the desk (J. R. Hagy) has been utilized full time
on instant case.

On 7/29/71 an Agent from within the Section (L. E. Belanger) was
assigned part time to handle special aspects of the Ellsberg case,