OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
SUNITED STATES GOVERMENT

Memorandum

TO : MR. D. J. BRENNAN
г.
FROM : S. J. PAPICH DATE: June 15, 1962

SUBJECT: GEORGE SPELLMEYER; CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
FISHING BOAT DECLARATION AND/OR,
"TERESA Y JULIA" RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IS - CUBA IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACLETS -TP/
KP 11-17-97
On June 14, 1962, Colonel Rene Tallichet, Central
Intelligence Agency (CIA), made reference to National Security
Agency (NSA) message 3/0 CUD/T536-62, Havana to Washington, dated[CTS]
June 7, 1962. This deals with a communication between the Cuban
Foreign Ministry and the Czech Embassy concerning the granting of [CTS]
a Cuban visa to a U. S. citizen named George Spellmeyer, owner of
the fishing boat "Teresa y Julia. Per NSA letter 2/27/98. mde

Colonel Tallichet] advised that on June 14, 1962, CIA
had received sensitive information covering communications within
the Cuban Government. One of these intercepted communications has
disclosed that the aforementioned fishing boat was leaving Havana
for the Isle of Pines (location of Cuban prison). [Tallichet pointed
out that it appears most unusual that a fishing boat owned by a U. S.
citizen would be involved in such activity.

ACTION: The above information is being directed to the attention
of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SJP: ban
(5)

1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Nasca
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED MCT 47
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

EX-115

NW 88608 Docld:32337287 Page 2
Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
12-11-97
4/2/98 mdk
CLASSIFIED BY 5648 $105/USR
DEOLAGGYON (JFIL)

105-111855

12 JUN 21 1962
