File#:

62-на-1163.95

Serial Scope:

EBF 1109x

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88614 Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 1

Vol. 14
Copy 5
The United States Senate

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations

With Respect to Intelligence Activities

INTE LAIGENCE INVESTIGATION

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/25/02 BY SPRALM /lj
MDR-16

Wednesday, November 19, 1975

Washington, D. C.

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 2

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
CONTENT
2 STATEMENT OF:
PAGE
3
Testimony of James B. Adams, Deputy Associate Director
FBI Intelligence Division
1738
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/25/02 BYSPZALM/aly
MOR-16
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
24
25
WARD & PAUL
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 3

KELLYGSH
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1727
1
INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION
2
3
Wednesday, November 19, 1975
4
5
6
7
8
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/25/02 BYSPZALM/aly
MOR 16
9
United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D.C.
10- The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:05 o'clock
11 a.m., in Room 318, Russell Senate Office Building, the
12 Honorable Frank Church (Chairman) presiding.
13 Present: Senators Church (presiding), Hart (Michigan),
14 Mondale, Huddleston, Hart (Colo) Baker, Tower, Gold, Mathias and Schweiker.
15 Also present: Frederick A.0. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel.
16 and Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel.
17
18
The Chairman. The hearing will please come to order.
19
Our witnesses today are Mr. James B. Adams, the Deputy
20
Associate Director of the FBI, and Mr. Raymond Wannall, who
21
is the Assistant Director in charge of the Intelligence
22
Division of the FBI.
23
Before I swear the witnesses, Senator Mondale has asked
24
if he might make an opening statement. And for that purpose
25
the Chair: recognizes the distinguished Senator from Minnesota.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 4

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 2
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1728
1
Senator Mondale. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
2
I have always supported the FBI. It is clearly the finest,
3
most professional law enforcement agency in the nation and
4
probably in the world. In apprehending robbers, foiling
5
kidnappers, catching fugitives, the FBI has an outstanding
6
record.
7
This is based on my own experience with the FBI in my
8
own state where I served as Attorney General. The vast bulk
9
of its work is devoted to law enforcement and legitimate
10
counter-espionage.
11
In these fields the FBI deserves fully the admiration
12
and respect which Americans traditionally held for the Bureau
13
and its personnel. But in one area, domestic intelligence,
14
the FBI, in my opinion, has clearly gone astray. It now
15
16
17
18
appears that there was an underworld within the FBI which
took the tools, techniques and zeal which was so effective
against the real foreign threats and turned them in upon some
of the American people.
19
20
21
22
23
Yesterday this Committee heard some of the most disturbing
testimony that can be imagined in a free society. We heard
evidence that for decades the institutions designed to enforce
the laws and constitutions of our country itself has been
engaging in conduct that violates the law and the Constitution.
24
We heard that the FBI, which is a part of the Department of
25
Justice, took justice into its own hands by seeking to punish
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 5

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 3
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1729
1
those with unpopular ideas. We learned that the chief law
2
enforcement agency in the Federal government decided that it
3
did not need laws to investigate and suppress the peaceful
4
and constitutional activities of those whom it disapproved.
5
We heard testimony that the FBI, to protect the country
6
against those it believed had totalitarian political views,
7
employed the tactics of totalitarian societies against
8
American citizens. We heard that the FBI attempted to destroy
9
one of our greatest leaders in the field of civil rights, and
10
then replace him with someone of the FBI's choosing.
11
From the evidence the Committee has obtained it is
12
clear that the FBI for decades has conducted surveillance over
13
the personal and political activities of millions of
14
Americans. Evidently, no meeting was too small, no group
15
too insignificant to escape their attention. It did not
1
16
seem to matter whether the politics of these Americans were
17
legal or radical or whether the participants were well known
18
or obscure. It did not matter whether the information was
19
intimate and personal.
The FBI created indexes, more
20
commonly called enemy lists, of thousands of Americans and
21
targeted many of the Americans on these lists for special
22
harassment. Hundreds of thousands of Americans were victims
23
of this surveillance program. Most of this was done in secret.
24
Much of it was kept from Congress and the Justice Department
25
and all of it from the American people. No one outside the
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 6

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 4
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1730
1
FBI has ever had an opportunity to know and appreciate the
2 full extent of the domestic surveillance program that was
3
then being conducted. T...
4
Thus we see that just as in the case of the CIA the
5
key issue was accountability: How we can assure that the
".
6
secret instruments of government are accountable to the
7
people, the Congress and the law.
8
It is clear that the FBI's authority for these programs
9
is essentially non-existent.
I am not persuaded that the
10
secret Presidential orders of. President Roosevelt support the
11
Domestic Intelligence program, and even if it did, I do
:
12
not believe that any President has the authority to order the
13
FBI or anyone else to spy on Americans, to burgle their homes,
14
to wiretap them, to open their mail or to blackmail them.
15
One of the most disturbing aspects of this affair is
16
that the FBI never paid very much attention to whether their
17
18
activities were authorized or not or whether they were legal
and constitutional.
One former senior intelligence officer
19
has testified that he never once heard a discussion about
20
legality or constitutionality. Most governments in history
:
21
22
have relied on some form of police power to determine what
views would prevail in their society. However, America was
23
24
25
based on the revolutionary concept that the people should
decide what is right and what is wrong, what is acceptable
and what is not.
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 7

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 5
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1731
1
That is what we meant by a free government, and our
2 forefathers were convinced that it can exist only through the
3
4
5
greatest tolerance of speech and opinion. They placed their
faith in the people to remain alert to encroachments on their
liberty..
6
The founders of our country knew that the greatest
7
danger to freedom comes from the efforts of government to
8
suppress the opinions of its opponents. They set up a
9
system which limited the powers of government, bound it in
10
the constraints of the law, and prohibited it from infringing.
11
on the rights of people to free expression. And through
12
13
the. separation of power, the system of checks and balances,
they tried to assure that the Executive would be accountable
14
to the people through the Congress.
15
For the 200 years of our existence as a nation the
16
preservation of liberty has been a constant struggle. Whether
17
it has been the Alien and Sedition Acts during the French
18
Revolution, the Red Scare and the Palmer Raids of World War
19
I, or McCarthyism after World War II, or Army spying during
20
the Vietnam War, the government has let a fear of unorthodox
21
opinion lead it into the trap of infringing upon the
22
Constitution in the name of internal security.
23
The issues we confront today are a part of a continuing
24
drama of American democracy. It is proof, if we ever needed
25
it, that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance.
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 8

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 6
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1732
1
Revelations of abuse of power do not threaten doméstic
2
security. These hearings do not weaken the FBI. What weakens
3
it is its failure to adhere to the proper role of law
4
enforcement.
Somehow it forgot that this was its job. It
5
began to use its energy to spy on Americans whose only
6
offense was an expressing opinions that some in the FBI did not
7
like. It confused talk of violence with acts of violence,
8
and all too often paid more attention to the talk than to
9
'the "act.
10
The answer, of course, is that violence justifies
1.1
prosecution, not surveillance. Our security is not improved
12
by watching those who commit crimes. Security from violence
13
lies in active and vigorous law enforcement of those who
14
15
16
17
are committing crimes. Security fram dangerous ideas, if
we need any security, should come not from the FBI but
from the merit of better ideas, in the good sense of the
American people.
18
Our liberty is best protected by scrupulous adherence
19
to the law and the Constitution by the agencies of government.
20
No government agency likes to be the subject of public
:
21
scrutiny. I know these have been difficult times for the
22
present leadership of the FBI, many of whom were not involved
:
23
in these programs at all. But if they had been spending a lot
24
of time responding to Congressional investigations, they
25
could not forget that this is the first time in 50 years that
:
ت
NW 88614 Docld:32989543: Page 9

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 7
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1733
1
2
3
4
the FBI had been subjected to public scrutiny.
-As painful as this-process.is, I hope the FBI itself.
would welcome the opportunity to let in some fresh air and
--
come to grips with the problems in candor and not retreat. into
5
past patterns of stirring up public fears to distract our
6
attention from the necessity of reform.
7
Mr. Chairman, may I say that yesterday I am told that
8
following our hearing the FBI responded exactly in the spirit
:
9
that I had hoped it would. If they can take this constructive
10
approach, I have no doubt that the FBI will benefit from
:
11
this attention.
I want to see a strong FBI, an FBI strong
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
-23
24
25
...
in law enforcement, in the detection of crime, and in the
:
gathering of legal evidence for prosecution and conviction,
but an FBI without abuses..
As we proceed with these hearings today, we should also
bear in mind the responsibility for the abuses we have
uncovered does not rest on the FBI alone. We in the
Congress have been derelict. It should not have taken until
this date for us to discharge our responsibility for
investigating FBI and other domestic intelligence.
:
We should also realize that the FBI has been performing
a function which many Americans, and at times the vast
majority of Americans, have wanted to see undertaken. When
popular opinion brands a group unAmerican and subversive
merely because of its political views, all too often the FBI
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 10

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 8
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1-734
1
has reponded to public expectations and from pressure from
2
a higher authority in government.
3
While this does not excuse what happened, we should
4
temper our criticism of the FBI's excesses by understanding that
5
in large part it was only the instrument of our own intolerance.
6
Indeed, I believe that is why our laws and the charter of the
7
FBI must be carefully redrawn to protect the FBI's integrity
8
from political pressures and hysteria.
H.
9
Finally, it would be a mistake to regard the abuses
10
of the FBI as those of evil men. The FBI has always been
11
composed of dedicated and hard-working public servants who
12
seek to do their jobs as best they can. The lesson we learn
13
from this history is that we cannot keep our liberty secure.
14
by relying alone on the good faith of men with great power.
15
As Mr. Justice Brandeis once wrote:
16
"Experience should teach us to be most on guard to
17
protect liberty when government's purposes are beneficient.
18
The greatest dangers to liberty lurk in the insidious
19
encroachment of men of zeal, well-meaning but without
20
understanding."
21
It is my hope that the FBI witnesses we will hear today
22
can enlighten us as to how it can conduct internal security
23
surveillance programs which do not infringe on our
24
constitutional liberties. I hope they can suggest iron-clad
25
assurances that the abuses of the past will not be repeated.
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 11

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 9
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1735
1
We need more protection than promises of self-restraint
2
by men of good will.
3
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
4
The Chairman. Thank you, Senator Mondale.
That is
5
an excellent statement with which I would like to be fully
6
associated.
7
Senator Hart of Michigan. I would, Mr. Chairman, also,
8
except that I want to make clear my family certainly did not
9
support, encourage, or by its vocal position give any
10
indication to the Bureau that they could do what they did.
11
I don't want to go too far in suggesting that what we heard
12
yesterday was simply responding by the Bureau to the mood
13
of those years.
:
14
In those years if we had known what you were doing,
15
I lay dough, most families would have said stop it.
20
21
16
17
18
19
1
Senator Mondale. That is true. I think one of the
points that we might aver to is the Houston Plan and the
tremendous pressure the FBI was placed under to again resume
techniques that it had abandoned in 1966. There is no
question that they were getting private pressure from higher
authority to do things. In that instance they didn't want
22
it.
23
The Chairman. Well, I was struck with the fact that
24
the Houston Plan, as illegal as it was, was limited to techniques
25
far more restrictive than the far-reaching methods that were
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 12

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 10
Phone (Area 202) 544-5000
1736
1
employed by the FBI during the years that we have reviewed in
2
yesterday's hearings. They led beyond anything that was
3
ever contained in any official document requesting from
4
the President additional authority.
5
Now I think, Mr. Adams, Mr. Wannall, in addition to
6
swearing you both, if you are going to have occasion to
7
ask others who are with you to testify in response to certain
8
questions, that it would be well at this time to swear them
9
also.
10
So if that is the case, anyone who anticipates that he
11
may be. testifying in this morning's hearing in response to
12
questions, if you will all stand and take the oath at this
:
13
time.
14
Do you and each of you solemnly swear that all of the
":
15
testimony that you will give in these proceedings will be
:
16
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so
:
17
help you God?
18
Mr.Adams. Ildo
19
Mr. Wanñall.. I do.
::
20
The Chairman. wAfter yesterday's hearing I asked the staff
21
to furnish me with the statutory authority that presently exists
22
that could be said to relate to the FBI's intelligence activities,
23
which was of course: the subject of yesterday's hearings.
24
And I am furnished in response to that request
25
Title XVIII, Section 533 of the United States Code, which
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 13

WARD & PAUL
gsh 11
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1737
1
reads as follows: "The Attorney General may appoint officials:
৩.
2
one, to detect and prosecute crimes against the United States;
3
two, to assist in the protection of the person of the
4
:
5
President; and three, to conduct such other investigations
regarding official matters under the control of the Department
:
of Justice and the Department of State as maybe directed by
6
:
7
the Attorney General.
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Now yesterday, Mr. Wannall, we were told about a series
of activities that were undertaken by the FBI, and indeed,
initiated within the FBI, the purpose of which was to harass
and discredit Dr. Martin Luther King.
Now I am not referring to the results of any FBI
investigative activity, but rather, I am referring to these
kinds of initiatives that were undertaken for the purpose of
either harassing or embarrassing or otherwise discrediting
Mr. King himself.
:
My first question is was Dr. King, in his advocacy of
18
equal rights for black citizens, advocating a course of
19
action that in the opinion of the FBI constituted a crime?
:
17
20
21
22
23
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
24
25
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 14

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL,
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
sh 12
২৩
TESTIMONY OF JAMES B. ADAMS, DEPUTY ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
OF THE FBI, AND. RAYMOND WANNALL, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR,
FBI INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
3
4
-:
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
1:5
Mr. Adams. No, sir.
The Chairman. So he was not then thought to be engaged
in any criminal activity. In fact, he was preaching, as I
remember those days, non-violence, was he not, as a method
of achieving equal rights for black citizens?
Mr. Adams. That's right, his advocacy for civil rights.
The Chairman. His advocacy of civil rights was non-
violent and therefore legal in character.
of him.
Mr. Adams. That was not the basis of our investigation
The Chairman. But as you have said, he was not
16
17
engaging in any unlawful activity in connection with his
advocacy of equal rights for black citizens.
18
Is that correct?
19
Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.
:
20
21
22
23
24
The Chairman. Well, is it true that at one time the
FBI undertook to discourage an American college from conferring
an honorary degree on Dr. King?
Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.
The Chairman. On what legal basis does the FBI have
25
a right to interfere, in an effort to discourage a college from
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 15
1738

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 13
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 conferring an honorary degree upon a man like Dr. Martin
2 Luther King, who was not engaging in or suspected of engaging
3
in criminal activity?
4
Mr. Adams. I know of no basis.
5
The Chairman. Why did the FBI do it?
6
Mr. Adams. Well, we have to approach two parts, in
7
8
9
my estimation, Senator Church. One, the basis for our
investigation of Martin Luther King, which was to determine
communist influence on him, my hands are tied in discussing
---10
11
12
13
that somewhat on the basis that there is certain information
which today, from an ongoing operation is sensitive and
which, of course, we have made known to you and certain
staff members.
:
14
15
16
I would like to say on the basis that from our review
we feel that we initially had a basis for investigating Martin
Luther King.
17
Now as far as the activities which you are asking about,
18
19
the discrediting, I know of no basis for that and I will
not attempt to justify it.
20
;
21
The Chairman. You never made a finding, did you, that
Martin Luther King was a communist?
22
Mr. Adams. No, sir, we did not. We were investigating
23
communist influence and the possible effect on him. We
24
never made such a determination.
:
25
The Chairman. Very well. Then there was no justification
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 16
1739

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
gsh 14
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1740
for the FBI to interfere?
Mr. Adams. To discredit him.
1.
1
The Chairman. In conferring an honorary degree upon
1
2
3
4
him.
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
:
Mr. Adams. I cannot find any justification for that.
The Chairman.
Is it true that the FBI on another occasion
intervened in an attempt to prevent Dr. Martin Luther King
from seeing the Pope?
Mr. Adams. I believe that is correct, sir. There were
approximately 25 incidents, I believe, of actions taken in
this regard. I think Mr. Schwarz has those available, that
I would lump basically all of them into the same situation
of I. see no statutory basis or no basis of justification for
the activity.
The Chairman. But what was the motive, there being no
statutory basis or other valid basis? What was the motive
for attempting to prevent Dr. Martin Luther King from visiting
with the Pope?
15
16
17
18.
19
20
:
21
22
23
24
Mr. Adams. In looking at absolute motive, I don't think
the files which we have reviewed and made available to the
Committee, give me a clear picture of what the motive was.
I think that there were, the motive was certainly known to
Mr. Hoover. It was known to one top official who is no longer
with the Bureau and maybe known to others, all of whom have
25
been interviewed by the Committee. Matters bearing on what
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 17

gsh 15
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
might have been the real motive or the possible motive,
I
৩.
2 again feel, because of reasons of privacy and delicacy, are
3
not a proper subject of discussion at a public hearing.
4
5
6
7
I think we know what could have. influenced this, but
one, the primary individual, Mr. Hoover, is not with us.
Individuals who were closest to him in this effort are not
with us. And the Committee itself has interviewed him.
8
So I really am not in a position to discuss this motive
9
issue.
10
11
The Chairman. Nevertheless, you would agree that
whatever the motive, it was a very improper thing to do.
Mr. Adams. I cannot find any justification, no, sir.
End Tape 12
WARD & PAUL
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
24
25
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 18
1741

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
AKELLY/smnl
t. 2
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1742
1
The Chairman. Is it true that after Dr. Martin Luther
2
King had been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, that an
'
3
anonymous letter was sent to Dr. Martin Luther King and to
4
Mrs. King, Coretta King, his wife, which was sent 34 days before
5
he was to receive the Nobel Peace Prize?
6
Mr. Adams. I do not think those dates are correct.
7
The Chairman. Well, it was sent
--
8
Mr. Adams. It was before he was to receive it. I think
9
34 days
--
upon reconstruction by one of the members of my
10
11
staff, 34 days would have been Christmas Day, and whether that
34 days
12
13
14
15
The Chairman. It is hard to believe that such a letter
would be written on Christmas Day.
days
Mr. Adams. It was not. written on Christmas Day, but 34
the Nobel Peace Prize I think was on December 10, the
letter 34 days from the date of the mailing of the letter
as has been reconstructed, as best as possible, would have been
16
17
18
Christmas Day..
:
The Chairman.
19
Was the letter written and sent by the
FBI?
20
Mr. Adams. We have no information to that effect. All
21
22
we know is that the draft, or original, of what may have been
23
the letter was found in papers of the FBI left after a former
24
official departed the FBI. We know that based upon inquiries
25
that we have conducted and you have conducted, we know that the
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 19

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
smn 2
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1743
1 letter was not
--
I mean it was in connection with other
2 material.
So I think we can assume
----
3
4
The Chairman. Other materials which were sent.
Mr. Adams. That's right. So I can assume that the letter
5
was sent. I have determined nothing from my review of the
6
files, and neither has your staff, to my knowledge, or has been
7 reported back to me which would indicate that this action was
8
duly recorded in any file or was a part of any authorized
9 program or anything else. This is a void that I do not think
10 any of us has been satisfactorily able to resolve.
11
The Chairman. We know the letter appeared in the files. We
12 know that the letter was received. We know it was associated
13
with other matters that were sent by the FBI to Dr. Martin
14 Luther King.
15
Mr. Adams. The letter was never in our files in the sense
16
that it was entered into the official files of the FBI. It was
17
among papers
--
18
The Chairman.
It was among.papers....
19
Mr. Adams..Left.by.an. individual.who. had. departed.
::
20
21
The. Chairman.. That individual being Mr. Sullivan?
Mr.. Adams. Yes, sir.
A
22
23
24
25
The Chairman. The letter read, "King, there is only one
thing left for you to do. You know what it is. You have just
34 days in which to do it, this exact number has been selected
for a specific reason. It has definite practical significance.
NW 88614 Docld:32989543 Page 20

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
smn 3
1744
1
You are done. There is but one way out for you."
2
Now, if you had received such a letter, how would you have
3
interpreted it? What would you have thought it meant?
4
5
6
Mr. Adams. I have read that statement. I have heard the
conclusions of your staff that it was a suicide urging. I can't
find any basis upon which they drew that conclusion. I think
7
8
that, approaching it from an objective standpoint, as I read it,
I don't know what it means.
9
I think rather than a conclusion it should be a speculation
10
in a realm of possibilities as to what was intended, but I
11
cannot
--
12
I don't understand the basis for.it. It is a
possibility, but I certainly would not reach such a conclusion
13
from my reading of that statement....
14
18
19
20
15
16
17
The Chairman...Now, if you had.received. a letter.of.this
kind.and.it had been directed to you, if you were in Dr. King's
position and you read, "King, there is only one thing left
for you to do. You know whatitis. You have just 34 days in
which to do it."
Now, that happened.to.correspond to the time
before which he was to receive the Nobel Peace Prize. What
would you think that meant?.
۱
21
Mr. Adams. I would have to consider what I was being
22
accused of. I would