File #:
62-HQ-116395

Serial Scope:
EBF 665

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 1

62-116395-665
SEP:eks 9-9-75

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

U. S. SENATE SELECT
COMMITTEE ON
INTELLIGENCE
ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Re is made to the SSC
August 20, 1975, request
for FBI materials and
specifically, to Part V, for which delivery was
requested by September 9, 1975. Enclosed for
ur approval and forwarding to the SSC is the
orig of a memorandum in full response to Part. V.
Also enclosed for ur records is a copy of the
memo prepared for the SSC.

ALIN OLMANED
HEREIN US UNCLASSIFIED
SPALMI

NW-88608-DocId:32989645_Page 2

Retain:
UNEXCISED

SSC-REQUEST, August 20, 1977
Part I, 1

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCL SSIFIED
DATE 10-20-00 BY SH
167-10498

NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 3

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
UNITED STATES GER TENT

Memorandum

TO :SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-19949)
DATE: 6/5/72

FROM SABERT C. BENJAMIN

SUBJECT: "CHARGED".
PELA, aka
Della Soover
SM
00: Los Angeles

excesed to protect FOI informant

On 5/31/72 CSLA 6596-Sadvised DELLA COOVER is
using the pseudonym Bella Stumbo, so this matter has been
marked "changed".

CSLA indicated COOVER is using the Bella Stumbo
alias in connection with her position as a stari writer For
the "Los Angeles Times".

ACTION

ADEX should be changed to include the new alias and
subject's position as a staff writer for the Times. Also,
since subject is writing under a still different pseudonym,
for the Monterey Park Progress newspapers, it is suggested
that consideration be given to advising the Internal Revenue
Service that she may be receiving payroll checks under these
pseudonyms and not reporting her total income correctly. Appro-
priate investigation should be conducted to verify subject's
use of the additional pseudonym.

ALLATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10-20-00 BY

excised to protist FBI FBI.
134-3171A COLA 6596-8)
80-420 (IOS ANGELES TIMES)

GGB/seb
(3)

100-199 P
SEARCHED...
CHED
SERIALIZED FILE
JU:
101-10
Kinder-

NW 88608 Docld 32989645 Page .S. Savings Bmds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Slen
2010

11000 Wilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, California 90024
July 25, 1972

District Director
Internal Revenue Service
Р. О. Дох 391
Los Angeles, California 90053.

Dear Sir

For your information the Los Angeles Office.
of the Tôi is conducting an official investigation involving
a Della Coover, bögn Septomber: 1. 1920, Social Security
Account Number 557-16-3953.

It has come to the attention of the Los Angeles
Office that Della Coover is a staff officer for the Los
Angeles Times" newspaper using ps pseudo hame of Halla Stumbo
and that she may not be reporting her earnings from this
employment.

Enclosed is a recent article written by Bella
Stumbo.

This information is being brought to your attention
for whatever action you deem necessary.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEDS.
DATE 10:20-00 BY SPA

Very truly yours,

Ayew Wa
WESLEY G. GRAPP
Special Agent in Charge

Enclosure 1

POST-
2- Addressee (RM)
Los Angeles(100-19949) 100-19949)
DPK/bab
(3)

100419042-1
SEARCHED
INDEXED
FILED

NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 5

FD-350 Rev. 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

S 3 FAMILIES VISITED
They Said
He Shot a
Little Girl'

(Indicate page, name of
newspaper, city and state.)

IV-1 Los Angeles Tim
Los Angeles, Calif.

ET FELLY STUMBO
Times Stall Writer

Early in the evening of July 2, 4-year-old girl
nomed Joyce Ann Hull was shot to derin as she played
in a yard in Hawarian Gordens. She was hit with 42
shotqun pellets med from a possing car. Subsequently.
there Chicong youths from the neighboring Norwalk
bonio were arrested. Being held on sesalcion of murder
in the killing ore Donald Anteio, 21, Oscar Hernandez,
22, and Michaci Ramirez, 17.

Donald Antelo's mother Beatrice, 50, is a devout.
Catholic. She has a makeshift altar in her bedroom
where she prays each night before going to bed.
She had just finished her rosary the night police
came looking for her son.

"There were four of them at the door. They
rushed through the house, searching for Don. I
said he wasult home, but what did they want. him
for? And they said because he shot a little girl,
that my boy killed a child."

Beatrice Antelo was sitting at her kitchen table,
staring listiessly at a cold cup of coffee in front of
her, her voice a weary whisper.

"They didn't have uniforms on, so I thought
maybe they were some of Don's friends playing a
bad joke. I told them to stop fooling around about
something so awful."

Though it was nearly noon now. Beatrice Antelo
still wore her houserobe and slippers. Her small
kitchen was half lost in the stagnant gloom of
drawn shades and closed windows,

"I said no, it was impossible. Not my son. He
would never in his life do such a turrids thing."
Tatrice Ado dropped her head into her
heads. An de dated woman who fost a luns to
hotelings page has now fab. a a throo
She s
erwins in bei voliving the night she
1
nost of
sa

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
DATE 10.2000 BY
HERESIA

Date: 7/19/72
Edition: Wednesday final
Author:
Editor:
Title: Dell Coover

Character:
or
Classification: 100-19949
Submitting Office: Los Angeler
Being Investigated

SEARCHE
SERIALIZED.
EXED
..FILED.
JUL 241972
AUSOLES
Kinder T

NW:88608 Docld:32989645 Page:6bout 1

home,"
صراع.
A Famineared on Welfas
dive
alifis
whore Jea
han
ing d
::
i!
1:1
"He ran to me and put his arins around me and
hay reo head. Muna, muna, i dodas in it
She patt
Ling leakhears. "And he crisd
it the like ille chil
whost me at Then Beatrice Antelo, vgary with an agony few
Hare. Then mothers ver know, Laid kathead down on it fa-
μανή, packing plant ble and sobbed in helpless, hopeless despair.
mwath. Hepton byr small,
white is no better, no horse
's ever
the other dilddated buntows lin Helen Hernandez, 19, and her husband Antonio,
trees of Norwall"
ira, sat side side by side on their couch in a suntiess liv.
a Murrican lectio, in Sto e conch, ang room overflowing with dimrinceps 10-
toey would
M
Lotto
th two of Use. Wo
drrencerywhere souhink of looking for my
1
tell the
Auch he says, she died to
afiets, who likened ened po politely, that
they be i wale come grotesque mistake.
She knew her son. He was a good boy. He loved
children lie and his girlfriend wanted to have a
pie family when they got married-which would
be as soon as Don found a job, it isn't easy to find
a job when you don't have a car to look outside the
harrie, she had explained,
Meantince she pointed out. Don was a good stu-
dent at Cerritos College. He studied hard, made
good grades, "was determined to make something
out of himself."

Beatrice Antelo absentmindedly stroked a tiny
brown dog sleeping peacefully in her lap. He is
her watchdog. When strangers approach the
house, he pokes his head through a broken living
room window pane and barks with comic ferocity.
Don had been in trouble before, of course, she
continued, an edge of bitterness creeping into her
voice as she told how he had been thrown out of
Excelsior High School four years ago because "he
had long hair before it was common." He had
brushes with the police before, too, she said, with
out claborating--but most barrio youths have si-
milar experiences.

'Won't Care About Saving flim'
"You have to live here to know what it's like.
Police everywhere, poverty you can't escape, no
jobs..." Her voice trailed off in a resigned shrug.
She makes less than $3,000 annually, so she can't
afford to hire a private attorney to defend her son,
she said. And she's certain the court-appointed
public defender "won't care about saving him."

A cough suddenly seized her. The doctor has
warned her against interviews, she explained. She
doesn't answer the telephone much anymore eith-
er because it often turns out to be somebody call-
ing her the mother of a monster or threatening to
bomb ber house or, worse still, to harm her older
son, 31, a father of two with a job outside Nor-
walk.

"I guess it makes people feel better to get the
hate off their chests when something as horrible
as this happens," she sighed. "I just hang up."

But her mind clearly wasn't on berself-it was
still on that last night on the scene that had
awaited her when she and the two officers re-
turned home.

"The had dready found Don and the Famirez
boy," she said. "The were standing our front, sur-
Lion."
Beaurice Antond inve away, toward
the wait vbere a huge calendar of the Ascension
huuthe gloom. The poince had freed bis Lands
NW 88608 Docld 32989645 Page 7, she said,
phies phies and photographs tegraphs of their five sons, a
B. They looked stummed med, like two people
have tried, yet failed to comprehend fully whet
has happened to them this summer,
Which is probably understandable, for nothing
in their experience has prepared them to deal wara
a murder charge against a member of their family
least of all against Oscar their quietest, cldest
son.

Hele, and Antonio ling Hers
It is therefore
bour Sunettess ide
almost turnd conde las en en ari Astondo Bene
Norwalk om des report there a
10
Phoenix 20 year high shock dropouis in
Smce then, they have cri- their family and no log-
dently lived accordion or fers, no hippies, no bums,
single, crcomplices phi no convicts. Onis hard-
losophy
namels, people working, sporis-minded,
who work hard, worshipcisan-living, patriotic
God, diciphne their chit Americans. Frpecially the
dren, azi tuind Bed own latter.
business will make out a
cordingly. Life might be
meager, but it will will advance
smootely and peaceably
and, peshape, for their
children, it may even be
come progressively richer,
And, until July, the iler
nandez formula had,
seemed a sound one.

Antonio, a big solid man
dressed in neat polyester
slacks and a crisp button
dowa shiri, is a grinder in
a nearby steel foundry. He
has saved his money and
now almost owns his mod
est little pink house which
by barrio standards, is a
comfortable one. He takes
pride in it.

Bashful Woman
Helen, a stout, hashful
woman with a fresh-
scrubbed, friendly face,
prone to twisting nervous-
ly at her wedding rings,
has always been single-
mindedly devoted to her
duties as a wife and moth-
er. Never has she even
considered working out
side her home, though the
Hernandez i amily, like
most in the barrio, has al
ways needed more money
than they have had.
:
Where Heich Hernan-
dez's 10-year-old son wes
drafted, cd, she 'beams. he
went to serve his country
without question, lie was
in the Army for a year, Un-
til an automobile accident
earned him both a medical
discharge and a per-
manent speech impe-
dimeni. Now he works in a
Norwalk packing plant.

Likewise. when Oscar
liernandez was drafted he
too went willingly, serving
as a guard at Da Nang Air
Force base in Vietnam un-
til his discharge with two
Bronze Stars, last sum-
mer. te had been looking
for a job ever since.

"He never really talked
much about Vietnam. Ex-
cept he was glad he didn't
have to kill anybody," says
Helen Hernandez, her
voice shy, hesitant,

"Oscar never liked to box
in high school either. he-
cause he didn't like to hit
anybody. So he played
baseball. And track."

She blushed, embar-
rassed, it seemed, to de-
fond her son's passive na-
ture.

Indeed, it soon becomes
Both devoted Jehovah's amply apparent to a stran-
Witnesses, the couple ger in the Hernandez
have also enforced a rigid household that making ex-
brand. of religion in their cuses for Oscar-who is
household. Their sons accused of driving the car
have been taught, among that carried Joyce Ann
other things, that violence, Huff's killer--is consid-
is evil. ered somehow undigni-
fied, even unpatriotic, in-
sofar as it might imply a
fear that the American
system of justice is incapa-
ble of discovering truth
import and dipas
sionately on its own.

NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 8

And in addition to thrie,
will we dov
"I've been try been trying to get
Herner Hor,
dove, the lern.
dez counte le co the add i
solace, unlike Beaute A
teh, of having a privat ivan,
attorace, a Laily Imeni.
who will roy represent their
son in coun
He Rasygoing
their
"Oscar was so quict,
easygoing. ile stage!
home simet all the time"
saya Helen Hernandez
proudly, watched tele-
vizice, he read a lot o
books and spons ma
iner. And he always
helped me around the
house. Every morning we
made the bevis together
and washed the dishes."

Abruptly, sna vanished
into a back room, returns
ing onstantly with a bug
11
Huan, she coul Tvously
hogering the albom in se
Det. I guess I'm
on't know
carried and two of them
pregnant agai
sspraw pravig
ragaed, filthy airs and
couches.
on the
ren-
Except dered inordinate
anaid, I just ust don
schat to say to her. Exce
that I know how she must
Le feeling. And i ory for
her child, too, just as I cry
for Orcar."
dinizera
pered by
heat, they said!
????
And four of Exmirez's
grandchil children-wo boys
Jand two girls, teed 2 to 4
Normally, 12 people live-crawled, rancan
in the four-room house
hold of Miguel Ramirez,
58, a disabled construction
worker. At present,
however, there are only 10
kecause his wi wife Rose is
visiting an ailing brother
in Mexico and his son Mi-
chaei, 17, is in jail.

On a recent hot weekday
morning, eight family
members were scattered.
about the tiny squalid liv-
ing room, dank with the
sour oders of diapers,
cooking foods and too
many hodies packed too
clove together without
benefi of even a fan.

There was Ramirez
himself, a paw, grizzled
man who set in his under
shirt in a corner chair,
somchow projecting rock
solid stability in an other
wise incredibly fluid hu-
man scene unfolding be-
fore him.

Thyee of his four daugh
ters-all mothers, all un-
bied in a shricitanz, laughi
ing fury through the
house, chasing a single ra-
vated dog and more often
than not taking advan-
tage of one of their
too-a pathose 4-year-old
boy, the red-ed victim of
chicken
pox
ir own,
Sonierenghter
On a couch hati covered
by a sheet, Yolanda Rami-
rez, 24, the senior daughter,
was outshouting a Popeye
the
television. Now seven-
cartoon blaring on
months pregnant, for the
third time, she was trying
to resolve the question of a
missing blouse with her
sister Marina, 21, six
months pregnant, who sat
methodically rolling
breakfast beans into tortur
les, burrito style, at the
end of the room.

A near-obese third
daughter, Sylvia, mother
of two of the rampaging
children, sat hulging out
of her tight shorts, fan-
ning herself with a purple
crochet doily which she
had snatched from a
screaming baby who had
spun it wildly in the air
long enough finally to
knock the fire off her ciga-
ret and get smacked for it.

"God, they'll all get the
:
a
mess
pox and what
that'll be," lamented Syl-
via.

"Well, bell, they all gotia
get it sometime," observed
Yolanda sagely, demon-
strating that, of the three
women, she is by far the
most philosophic.

"None of us are mar-
ried," she said, loding
downright amused vie
question, because the
guys who knocked us up
ace all ether bums or they
dont have the jobs to B
port families."
EUP-

NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 9

So, she said, thee alleventh of her richt.chit
ds Mila kamine
"just may pach
Deponeet Children
:
fi:s
meluding Ragirez
himet who, forrlis-
closed reasons, hasn't bon
able to acquire weitere aid
hime although, be suf-
fers tom a severely ar-
thritic tack, Latel, 100,
he griberet, he's luon sof-
fering from asfinger thai
was bali bitten of the ouL
er night in a har fight,
"The guy reall hod
some set of teeth." he
chucklol, relishing the
memory of "the little
squabble."

Put seriously, he said, he
would like to tell the state
to go shove its welfare.
"I want to work, but all I
ever knew was hard labor.
Now, who's going to hire a
53-year-old Mexican for a
desk job? 1 can barely
even reed."

Without AFDC aid, he
added. "we'd all probably
starve." As it is, he's $1,-
000 behind in his house
payments so, sooner or la
ter, they'll all probably be
out on the street anyway.
Nobody looked very
alarmed.

Nobody looked, either,
like they even remem-
bered their brother Mis
chael, until Ramirez sud-
denly reminded them.

"I don't even have the
money for gas to go see
my son," he said.

The mood in the room
changed instantly to se-
riousness.

What concerned every-
body present, it seemed,
was not so much Mike's
plight, but rather the ef-
fect it would have on his
mother when she returns
from Mexico, sometime
later this week.

She has suffered from
severe nervous disorders
for years, they said. And
when she finds out what's
happened to her son--the
NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 10.
her her over the edge.
:
Còn 1 wish we could
got her to stay down there
till this is over," lamented
Sylvin, lighting another ci-
gares.

"Yeh, but if we try that
she'll just get suspicious
Something's wrong,
served Yolanda, alwars;
the realist.

Miguet Ramirez, who
has a certain indisputable
dignity born of uncom
promising honesty, had
grown somber in his cor-
ner.

"As you can sce, it's
mostly just a question of
survival. like in a jungle,
for Mexicans like us. We
just live from day to day.
That's why a lot of Chica-
nos hang on to their pride
and get mad easy-it's all
they got

He shrugged. looking
around at his daughters,
who listened, suddenly si
leni.

Most of his kids had
either been kicked out of
school for making trouble
or they had quit in dis-
gust, he continued.

One son. 22, was in jail
already, for undisclosed
reasons. Only his oldest
boy, 28, had even golien
out of the Norwalk barrio,
although, Ramirez digress-
ed, he had hopes for his
youngest son, 15, who was
"a good student and a hard
worker."

One Thing Sure
Meantime, whatever his
kids had done, Ramirez
said, he knew one thing
for sure.

"My son Mike would
never hurt a kid or be part
of a rotten thing like that.
He may have been mean
sometime, but he would
not take it out on babies."

But, sighed Ramirez, it's
out of his hands now. And
the whole fantily expects
the worst.

"They'll just figure he's
a dirty Mexican capable of
nything. What did the
cops call it a joy killing?
They'!! procibly just lock
him up for good, without
thinkies t Lace about it,"
said Yolanda, shruering
cynically, philosopalang
tổ thẻ ứng.

11000 Wilthige Doulevard
Los Angeles Colarochia
June 57 197
90024

Distrion Director
Internal Revenue Service.
Post Office Box 391
Los Angeles, California 90053

Dear Sirt.
ATIH: LYNN SULLIVAN (Field Audit (1502)
:.

Reference is rude to our letter of July 25, 1972,
relating to win investigation we were conducting at that time
involving Della Coover, born September 1, 1900, Sociól Becurity
Accbent lumber 557-16-1963; und to the telephone call between
Special Agent Gilbert G. Binjamin of this cifice cad Lynn
Sullivan, at your office located at 9150 Fost Flair Drive, EI
Monte, Calir mia, 91731, on Monday, June 4, 1973.
4

To aid in your investigation in this goi matter, there
are enclosed two xerox duplications of articles which appeared
in the "Los Angeles Free Press," iscues of March 20 and June 19,
1970, bearing the byline of Della Rosa, which is believed to be
another pseudonym utilized by Hrs, Coover.

This information is being furnished for whatever
action may be appropriate.

Very truly yours,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
BY

Enclosures 2
Addressee (RM)
JOE D. JAMIESON
Assistant Director in Charge
100-19949-5
SEADONED
2
1,
- Los Angeles (100-19949)
GGB/cll
(3)
FILED
NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 11

RETAIN:
NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 12
SSC-REPWEST, August 20,1975
Part I, 2.

ALL FOR AION CONTAINED
HERAIN'S UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10-2000 BY SPRAU
StaAdap

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Mem
TO : MR. TOLSON
FROM : J. P. MOHR
Aum
UNITED.

SUBJECT: APPLICANT INVESTIGATIONS
GOVERNMENT
DATE: 12/21/49

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10-20-00 BY SROALMR
ir. Tolson
In Clogg
Mr. Olavin
ur. Ladd
Vr. Nichols
VrRoson
Tracy
Mr. Egan
Vr. Gurnea
Vr. Harbo
ur. Mohr
The Director has inquired concerning the procedure which wr:
ur. Quirn Tama
Tele. Hoom
Ur. Nease
Miss Hole
Miss Gandy
was followed in the Atomic Energy Act applicant case whereby
the Washington Field Office was not alerted to the fact that
Harold Ickes, whose name was given as a reference, should not be
interviewed.

There is attached a memorandum dated December 20, 1949 from
Mr. Rosen to Mr. Ladd with respect to the specific Atomic Energy case
mentioned, namely Fred Ernest Schnepfe, who had given Harold Ickes
as a reference on his PSQ or application form. From a reading of the
attached memorandum which was prepared by Section Chief G. C. Callan
of the Applicant Section, it is obvious that the Supervisors who handle
applicant matters in the Investigative Division do not have any policy
with respect to the interviewing of references, former employers,
associates or others except where the Bureau has specifically indicated
that certain individuals should not be contacted, such as Henry Steele
Commager, personnel of CBS and the like. As a matter of fact, the
present policy in effect at the Seat of Government concerning applicant
investigations is to interview all references and the attached memorandum
indicates that Harold Ickes had been interviewed in the past in connec-
tion with applicant investigations and has exhibited a cooperative
attitude. It would seem, therefore, that no action should be taken
with respect to the supervisory personnel at the Seat of Government con-
cerning the referral of Harold Ickes' name to the Washington Field
Office for interview in connection with the Atomic Energy Act case:
mentioned.

As you know, at the Executives Conference the Director's wishes
with regard to interviewing persons who have demonstrated hostile、
attitudes toward the Bureau have been considered in the past and no
instructións have been issued to the Supervisors at the Seat of Govern-
ment or to the field concerning this matter except as to specific in-
dividuals whose names have been sent to the field in the recent past
in an SAC Letter. This matter was called to the attention of the
Executives Conference as recently as December 20, 1949 and the Confer-
ence felt it would be undesirable for the Bureau to embark upon a pro-
gram of advising the field to not interview certain individuals in
connection with various types of investigations conducted by the Bureau.
The Executives Conference realized that the hostile attitude toward the
Bureau stems not from our criminal investigative work but from the
Eureau's investigative activity in the field of applicant investigations
and the Loyalty Program. The Conference feels that the blacklisting
of individuals is fundamentally bad and will ultimately result in ex-
treme embarrassment to the Bureau. It is also felt it is extremely
COPY DESTROYED
150 NOV 25 1901
B
.)
RECORDED
1
60-12001
5.36 13
NW86608 Docid:32989645 Page 13.

lifficult to draft a letter to all SAC's pointing up the problem to
them and expecting them to adhere to any policy which will eliminate
the difficulty which we have encountered heretofore.

I have discussed this matter with Mr. Carlson in some detail
and he feels that we may be able to control to some extent the inter-
viewing of persons hostile to the iureau at the Seat of Government
without furnishing a "black list" or statement of policy to the field.
Mr. Carlson feels, and I agree with him, that the major portion of our
difficulty stems from the Loyalty investigations and applicant investi-
gations. Mr. Carlson and I therefore propose that the following pro-
cedure be instituted immediately at the Seat of Government in order to
meet the objectives desired by the Director in 'connection with this
matter:
-

1. The Crime Records Section shall be responsible for preparing
and maintaining in a current status a list of those individuals known
to be hostile to the Bureau. It is felt that it is imperative that a
list bé prepared. because the judgment of individual Supervisors re-
ferring cases to the field will differ depending upon the extent of
their day to day newspaper reading, radio listening and perusal of
various and sundry periodicals. It would also mean that each Supervisor
would have to either prepare his own list or endeavor to depend on a
faulty memory. Furthermore, an individual may at one time appear to be
hostile to the Bureau and subsequently his attitude may change and it
may be very desirable to interview him.

2. This list shall be furnished to only those Supervisors at the.
Seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigning Loyalty
or applicant cases to the field. This will include Supervisors in the
Loyalty Section of the Security Division, the Applicant Section of the f
Investigative Division and those Supervisors in the Administrative
Division handling Bureau applicant cases. This will mean that not more
than 25 Supervisors at most at the Seat of Government will have pos-
session of such a list. These Supervisors shall check all references
and present and former employers against this list before referring
the case to the field for investigation.

It should be realized that the procedure recommended will not
provide against interviews with neighbors of the applicants or
associates whose names are brought up during the course of the inves-
tigation. It is felt, however, that the bulk of the people who are
interviewed in these cases are set out as references by the applicant
and it would only be on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the
Bureau will be interviewed on a neighborhood investigation or as an
associate of the applicant.
gh
:
2
NW 88608 Docld:32989645 Page 14.
-

TANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
TO
:
FROM
SUBJECT:
:
•
:
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
THE DIRECTOR DATE 10.2000 BY SPRA
THE EXECUTIVES CONFERENCE
♡
SPRAWYR
rat for the
DATE: 1/4/50
M
The Executives Conference of January 4, 1950, consist-
Tolson
Mr Clegg
iur. Glavin
Mr. Ladd
r. NicholsL
Ur. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Egan
Mr Gurnea
Harpo
Painington-
Cainn Tenim
Tele. Room
Miss Holmes
Mss Gandy
ing of Messrs. Tolson, Glavin, Harbo, Ladd, Rosen, Clegg, r. Neese
Carlson, Nease and Mohr, in accordance with the Director's in-,
structions, considered the attached memorandum of December 21,
1949, with respect to the procedures in conducting applicant
investigations and particularly the method suggested to avoid inter
avoid inter
views with those individuals having a hostile or critical attitude 1
toward the Bureau and its work.
ン

It was pointed out to the Conference that apparently the
hostility and criticism of the Bureau stem not from our normal day to
day criminal investigative work but to a very slight extent to inves-
tigations in the Internal Security field and very specifically and
definitely to applicant and Loyalty investigations. It was felt that
if some procedure could be devised to avoid interviews with individuals
in applicant type cases where the individuals have exhibited a hostile
or critical attitude toward the Bureau that much could be accomplished
to eliminate the difficulties experienced in the past. The Conference
felt it would be undesirable to prepare a list of any sort which might
be termed a "blacklist" to be distributed to all of the divisional
offices. It was proposed that the following procedure be instituted
immediately at the Seat of Government in order to meet the objectives
desired by the Director in connection with this matter:

1. The Crime Records Section shall be responsible for preparing
and maintaining in a current status a list of those individuals, known
to be hostile to the Bureau. It is felt that it is imperative that a
list be prepared because the judgment of individual Supervisors re-
ferring cases to the field will differ depending upon the extent of
their day to day newspaper reading, radio listening and perusal of
various and sundry periodicals. It would also mean that each Supervisor
would have to either prepare his own list or endeavor to depend on a
faulty memory. Furthermore, an individual may at one time appear to be
hostile to the Bureau and subsequently his attitude may change and it
may be very desirable to interview him.,
Each be the subject of
2. This list shall be furnished to only those Supervisors at the
Seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigning Loyalty
or applicant cases to the field. This will include Supervisors in the
Loyalty Section of the Security Division, the Applicant Section of the
Investigative Division and those supervisors in the Administrative
Division handling Bureau applicant cases. This will mean that not more
than 25 Supervisors at