JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION 
Date: 10/21/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10203
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1134

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, TP
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 10/12/66
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : LST, LCN ACT, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/21/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318
Docld:34489573 Page 1
2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI
Date: 10/12/66

Transmit the following in
(Type in plaintext or code)

Via AIRTEL AIR MAIL
(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)
0
SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka
AR
(00:TP)

One copy being furnished Las Vegas as informa-
tion has previously been obtained by Tampa indicating
TRAFFICANTE's alleged presence in Las Vegas although con-
tact with logical Las Vegas informants and source of in-
formation has not established TRAFFICANTE's presence.

Enclosed for Butte is one photo of SANTO
TRAFFICANTE, JR., taken 9/30/66.

For info Butte and WFO, SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,
along with 12 other reported LCN figures, were located by
the New York City PD on the evening of 9/22/66 at La Stella
Restaurant, Queens, New York. TRAFFICANTE has been re-
ported to be the "boss" of LCN in Florida.
B
On 9/23/66, TP 41-C advised that during the
Labor Day weekend TRAFFICANTE had been at his St. Peters-
burg Beach residence and made the statement that he had
recently been in London, England and that gambling was
profitable. At this time, TRAFFICANTE indicated that he

3- Bureau
2 - Butte (Enc. 1)
1 - Las Vegas (92-681) (Info) REC-58 92-2781-1134.
2 WFO
2 - Tampa
JAA:bb
(10)
C
OCT 14 1960/
C. Wick
NE

Approved:
700CT Speddent
Sent M Per
Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318
Docld:34489573 Page 2

ΤΡ 92-1

had flown from London to California, then to Las Vegas,
Nevada, then to New York, and then to Miami, before return-
ing to Tampa for the Labor Day weekend. TRAFFICANTE appar-
ently did not detail time in London, nor give any indication
of how much time he had spent in each of the above-mentioned
locations. TP 41-C of the opinion from TRAFFICANTE'S
remarks that he had had a companion on his London, England,
trip, but identity not known at this time. Investigation
has indicated that British officials are aware that DINO
CELLINI is Managing Director of the Colony Club, Berkley
Square, London, and CELLINI has in the past been identified
as an associate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

In addition, on October 7, 1966, TP 120-C ad-
vised that sometime prior to 9/22/66, TRAFFICANTE's 5-year-old
grandson, SANTOS PANIELLO, who resides with his mother, Mrs.
AUGIE (MARY JO) PANIELLO, at 2505 Bristol, Tampa, had re-
ceived a box containing a very expensive-looking cowboy
suit. TP 120-C indicated that this box containing the
cowboy suit was from the Indian Trading Post, Yellowstone
National Park, but that the wrapping, which would indicate
air mailed and how addressed, had been removed from the box.

For the additional information of Butte and WFO,
TRAFFICANTE has in the past, when securing air passage,
used the names contained on the LCN membership card index
and the names T. MOETOS, JAMES BRUNO, ED VALDEZ, and JOE
GARCIA, the latter name having been used by TRAFFICANTE in
traveling to the meeting in New York during September 1966.
TRAFFICANTE has a current U. S. passport issued in the
name of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., # F-391387, issued 5/28/65
at Miami, Fla. Previous investigation has indicated that
Bureau of Customs had placed stops with INS concerning
TRAFFICANTE's foreign travels, but Tampa not in possession
of any indication that INS or Bureau of Customs has infor-
mation that TRAFFICANTE recently out of the U. S.

Tampa has submitted FD-315 requesting F-1 and
F-3 type stops.

LHM to be forwarded to LEGAT, London, being pre-
pared and will be furnished to the Bureau for dissemination.
USS
REVIEWED BY JFK TASK FORCE
LEADS:
ON 9/4/98 d
BUTTE DIVISION
RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
2 TOTAL DENIAL

NW 78318
Docld:34489573 Page 3

ΤΡ 92-1

AT YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK

Will, at Indian Trading Post, attempt to deter-
mine details of purchase including date purchased, name
used in making purchase, and any other information that
would aid in placing TRAFFICANTE at any location at any
given time.

WFO

AT WASHINGTON, D. С.

Will, at Bureau of Customs, determine nature of
stop requested and any information obtained by Customs as
a result of such stop.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

NW 78318
Docld:34489573 Page 4
3
i
