File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

1366, 1367

1369
1371 THRU 1374
1379
1381
1384 THRU 1393
1400, 1400X
1402, 1403

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassin.
Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Notel Case#:NW 88608 Date: 03-18-2025

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

FEB 19 1976

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for Senstuly
Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Request Dated February 19, 1976

Attached is a letter from the SSC dated
February 19, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriate
response.

LENCLOSURE
MDR 16
ALL FEI INFORMATION CONTAINED
SPALMIEHL
DATE: 11/8/00 BY SP2

ST-10T REC-5002-116395-1403

cc: Paul Daly

REVOLUTION BIC
AME
LCD 173
CD FEB 26 1976

NW 88608 Docid:12389578 Page 2

FEB 19 1976

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Request Dated February 19, 1976

Attached is a letter from the SSC dated
February 19, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriate
response.

MDR 16
ALLTEIKFORMATION CONTARED
FERENT IS UNCLACSLID
DATA 11/8/00-SPO ALMIEHL

cc: Paul Daly

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 3

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN
JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.
WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.
ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.
GARY HART, COLO.
HOWARD H. BAKER, J, TENN.
BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.
RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL
CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

United States Senate.
SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 94TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 19, 1976

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq.
Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination
Office of the Deputy Attorney General
U. S. Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mike:

The Select Committee requests delivery of cer-
tain materials pertaining to the Secret Army Organization
and the role of an FBI informant therein, which materials
have been identified to the FBI by Mr. Sam Bouchard of
the Committee staff.

MDR 16
Sincerely,
Sant Eleft

ALL FEI INFORMATION CONTAINED
FERIN IS IS UNCLASSIFIED
John T. Elliff
Director
Domestic Intelligence Task Force

DATE ALM/EHL
BY

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 4

62-116395-1403
CLOSURE
RECEIVED

T OF JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT
JUSTIC
6 Info EPG:HAN/Edy
See Memo WA Branigan to W. R. Wawnall 2/16/76. Mail Intercepto Spy ener
Sie Memo J.6. Die jon to T. W. Leave of

REVOLUTION BIC
AN
RO DOMINA JUSTITIA SE
☆ ☆ ☆
QUTFUR
TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division.
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination
FEB 17 1976
Senstudy

SUBJECT: SSC Letter Dated February 17, 1976

Attached is a letter from the SSC indicating
that the Committee will make available for review
by persons from the Department those draft reports
which relate to activities by the Department. The
purpose of that review would be to identify any
classification or similar problems in the draft re-
ports. Two draft reports are presently ready for
review.

Please designate appropriate persons from the
Bureau to review these reports and to advise the
Committee as to classification or similar problems.

:
2/19/76 Lee adreseal re mail openings
Spugadust heuman advised re infts

sa
and mark intesse
ENCLOSURE REC-5062-116375-1402 called Bob Kelly
84 MAR 2
ST-101
MDR 16
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE/118100 BY SPA ALMIEHL
107
cc: Paul Daly

NW 88608 Docld:82089578 Page 5
LCD 13
FEB 26 1976
٠٠٨٧٢٠
18/76
Barronse review
at FRIHQ
ssc
2/19/76 Called
Same perefore
2/19/76 FAO Sdus
5. Fred Baron.
ptatice sse would
allar renew
anly in Thein
LEGAL CONCEL
spau
Prd

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Letter Dated February 17, 1976

The
Attached is a letter from the SSC indicating
that the Committee will make available for review
by persons from the Department those draft reports
which relate to activities by the Department.
purpose of that review would be to identify any
classification or similar problems in the draft re-
ports. Two draft reports are presently ready for
review.

Please designate appropriate persons from the
Bureau to review these reports and to advise the
Committee as to classification or similar problems.

MDR 16
ALGIBITTORRONT
【BOROT CONTALTED
GENIS LUCLSSUALD
b01118/00 τον δραι

cc: Paul Daly

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 6

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN
JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH,
WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.
ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.
GARY HART, COLO.
HOWARD H. BAKER, J, TENN.
BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.
RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL
CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

United States Senate
SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, SATH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 17, 1976

Michael Shaheen, Jr.
Counsel
Office of Professional Responsibility
Department of Justice (Room 4313)
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mike:

This will confirm our telephone conversation con-
cerning the procedure whereby we will make available to
you, or your designee, copies of draft reports relating
to the Justice Department. As we discussed, the pur-
pose is so that any classi classification (or other such
problems, e.g., the identity of informers) which may be
inadvertently raised in our reports can be identified.

The first two drafts relating to the FBI are ready.
They are:

1. "The Use of Informers in FBI Domestic
Investigations"; and

2. "Domestic CIA and FBI Mail Opening Programs".
(Substantial portions of which relate to the
FBI.)

I would appreciate it if someone very promptly could con-
tact Frederick D. Baron, my assistant (224-1746), who
will arrange the details of location and time for the
review.

MDR 16
Sincerely yours,
Prits
Frederick A.. Schwarz, Jr.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
FBREIN UNCLASSIFIED
DATIS 11/8/00 BY SP2 ALM/EHU

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 7
10 11 12
*
RECEIVED E
62-1163.95-1409 FEB 17 1976
ENCLOSURE
12799
123

SENT FROM D. O.
my158 MINIL
DATE 2-17-76
BY

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD In
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspectiog.
In
wi
• Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Pien. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.

MDR 16.
February 12, 197ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
M. William H.Lawrence:
314 Swiss.Pine-Lake-Drive
Spruce Pine, North Carolina 28777.

Dear Bill:
HEREINSUNGLASSIFIED 2 ALMIEHL
Senstudy

BY
Lea sa at lave

Thank you very much-for-the-two-letters you sent
to Jim Adams about the remarks made by Senator Morgan.
I have seen him briefly since he made these remarks and
plan to see him next week again to talk over the reason for
these remarks at some length. As noted in his response to
you, apparently he has come to this feeling as a result of the
so-called "unchallenged" matters which he has had reported
to him as a member of the Senate Select Committee. It is
true that some mistakes of the Bureau were brought out, but
the over-all performance of the Bureau has, as you said, been
well above that which could even be expected of us and cer-
tainly has been most contributory to the safety of this nation
throughout the years. To categorize us as "rotten to the core"
and to indicate that we are a great threat to the United States
miss the mark tremendously and are completely without foun-
dation. I will so inform him, but apparently he has made up
his mind and there is little likelihood that we will have a
convert.

Again, thank you and I hope that you persist in yourgy
efforts to come to our support when our credibility has been
attacke
REG-2 62-116.395=1400X
NOT RECORDED Sincerely,
46 APR 14 1976 5/ Clarence FE/29 1976
19

CMK: EDM (3)
INITIALE ON ORIGINAL
Copy made for Corres
and Tours Section

MAIL ROOM
APR 16 1976 TELETYPE UNIT PIALA WA ORIGINIS
Director Sec'y
8.4
NW-88008 Doold 32989578 Page 8
12/27/76
GPO: 1975 0504-120

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counse

SUBJECT SENSTUDY 75
DATE: February 12, 1976

The memorandum of W. O. Cregar to
Mr. W. R. Wannall, captioned as above and dated February 6,
1976, briefly reviewed a speech made on the floor of the
Senate by Senator Frank Church. The speech was entitled
"Government Adherence to the Law: A Call For a Temporary
Special Prosecutor on Intelligence Abuses." Thi's memoran-
dum stated the subject of a special procecutor would be the
subject of a separate memorandum prepared by the Office of
Legal Counsel.

Assoc. Dir
Dep. AD Adm
JAD Ind
DapAD
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Inteli.
Laboffitory
Lag Coun.
Plan & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

As you may recall, in a November 28, 1975,
memorandum from the Director, FBI, to the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, captioned "Watergate
Reorganization and Reform Act of 1975, S.495, 94th Congress,
1st Session," we deferred to the Department the question of
whether there should be a special prosecutor as envisioned
'by that bill.

On Friday, February 6, 1976, the Attorney
General of the United States testified before the Senate
Government Operations Committee. The Attorney General
stated he did not agree with Senator Church's proposal
that a special prosecutor should be appointed to investigate
past activities of the CIA and the FBI.

ST-101 REC-50 62-116395-1400
RECOMMENDATION:
For information.

1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Cregar
1 - Mr. Moore
1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Daly
1 - Mr. Miller

JDM:mcz
(8) meny

84 MAR 1 1976
NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 9
MOR 16
25
дет
FEB 1976 pen
Wa
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
DATE LIS DD BY SRAALMAN COUNSEL

PLAINTEXT TELETYPE NITEL

2-23-76
TO SAC BOSTON 1- Mr. Walsh
1- Mr. Mintz
MDR 16 1- Mr. Wannall
FROM DIRECTOR FBI ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED 1- Mr. Cregar
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED 1- Mr. Hotis
SENSTUDY 75 11/8/00 BY SPBALM/EHL 1- Mr. Daly
DATE

REBUCAL 2-23-76.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE HAS REQUESTED THAT

SA FRANCIS T. LEONARD BE MADE AVAILABLE IN WASHINGTON, D. C.,

FOR INTERVIEW BY THAT COMMITTEE ON 2-25-76. THE INTERVIEW

WILL CONCERN HIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE BUREAU'S INVESTIGATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, AND STANLEY DAVID LEVISON. SA LEONARD

SHOULD ARRANGE TO ARRIVE IN WASHINGTON IN TIME TO BE

BRIEFED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

REC-50 62 0 116395-1393
AND INTELLIGENCE DIVISION AT 9:00 A.Μ., 2-25-76, IN 10 FEB 24 1976
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTI
ROOM 3658, JEH BUILDING. ST 104 COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

1 - Personnel File SA Francis T. Leonard FEB 2 1976
1000P SST
TELETYPE
Assoc. Dir. NOTE: Michael Epstein, Senate Select Committee staff
Dep. AD Adm. member, made the request for the interview of Leonard.
Dep. AD Inv. This communication will serve as approval for the waiver
Asst. Dir.: of existing employment agreement signed by SA Leonard for
Admin. purposes of this interview. Referenced phone call alerted
Comp. Syst. ASAC Richard Strain of this request.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.. PVD:dkg (10)
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT
NW 88608 Docll 32989578 Page 10
GPO: 1975-569-920

PLAINTEXT TELETYPE -Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1 - Mr. P. V. Daly)

TO SAC SALT LAKE CITY NITEL
1 Mr. W. R. Wannall
FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395) FEBRUARY 23, 1976
1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan
SENSTUDY 75. 1- Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED THAT

FORMER SPECIAL AGENT (SA) STEVEN L. CHRISTENSEN BE MADE AVAIL-
ABLE FOR STAFF INTERVIEW CONCERNING HIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE
SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION. BUREAU RECORDS INDICATE LAST KNOWN
ADDRESS FOR THIS FORMER EMPLOYEE TO BE POST OFFICE BOX 2,
KANOSH, UTAH.

SAC OR ASAC, SALT LAKE CITY, IS REQUESTED TO PERSONALLY
CONTACT FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN AND ADVISE HIM OF SSC DESIRE TO
INTERVIEW HIM. HE SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT, IF SSC INITIATES
CONTACT, FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN BEFORE CONSENTING TO INTERVIEW
SHOULD CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY COLLECT CALL
TO BE ADVISED OF HIS RIGHTS, THE PARAMETERS OF THE PROPOSED
INTERVIEW AND TO SECURE A RELEASE FROM HIS CONFIDENTIALITY
SAN DIEGO (AIRMAIL)
TJM:1hblhb
(9)
MAIL ROOM
4. FEB 2.5.1076
NW 88608-Docld.32989578 Page 11

FEDERAL DUREAU OF INVESTICATIO
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
FEB 28 1976
EMS 5308M
TELETYPE

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

GPO: 19750-5943

PAGE TWO 62-116395

AGREEMENT, HEADQUARTERS SHOULD BE ADVISED BY TELETYPE

AFTER FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN HAS BEEN CONTACTED IN LINE
WITH THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS. IF THIS FORMER EMPLOYEE NO
LONGER RESIDES IN THE SALT LAKE CITY TERRITORY OR IS
TEMPORARILY AWAY, A LEAD, FOLLOWING THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS,
SHOULD BE SENT TO APPROPRIATE OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH A
COPY OF THE COMMUNICATION DESIGNATED FOR HEADQUARTERS.

COPY AIRMAILED TO SAN DIEGO.

NOTE:

Referenced Bureau teletype 5/2/75 was a general
instruction to all SAC's concerning the SSC inquiry into
this Bureausoperations and this Bureau's cooperation with
that body, Former SA Christensen was the handling Agent
for former Bureau informant Howard Berry Godfrey, who
furnished this Bureau considerable information concerning
the Secret Army Organization (SAO). Bureau investigation
of the SAO has recently been receiving considerable publicity
in the San Diego press.

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 12

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10.
MAY 1962 DITION
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Wannallwed
: Mr. W.
FROM : R. L. Slackelford fis

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75...

PURPOSE:
1 Mr.J.B. Adams
2- Mr. J. A. Mintz (1 - Mr.
Hotis)
1 Mr. W. R. Wannall
DATE: 2/17/76

1 - Mr. R. L. Shackelford
1- Mr. J. G. Deegan
1 - Mr. S. S. Mignosa
1 Mr. F. J. Cassidy
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
MY Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Iny.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

To advise that Senate Select Committee (SSC) Executive
Session was held on 2/13/76, where the role of the FBI in past
"domestic intelligence investigations" as well as the role that
the FBI should play in intelligence type investigations of
domestic subversive organizations in the future was discussed.
SSC requested copy of instructions sent to field by FBIHO
regarding Privacy Act matters which has a bearing on
investigations of domestic groups.

DETAILS:
Reference is made to Cregar to Mr. Wannall memorandu
dated 2/9/76, concerning SSC Executive Session held on 2/6/75,
at which time it was decided that an additional Executive Session
would be held at a future date, regarding "domestic intelligence
investigations."

An SSC Executive Session was held from approximately
10:55 a.m., until 12:45 p.m., 2/13/76. Representing the SSC
were Chief Counsel Frederick A. O. Schwartz, Jr., who acted as
Chairman, John Elliff, Mark Gitenstein and Michael Epstein.
No
U.S. Senators were present. BuSTa104epresentatives offering
testimony were Assistant Director W. Raymond
Inspector-Deputy Assistant Director Hunter Helgason,
Section Chiefs Joseph G. Deegan and Robert L. Shackelord of
the Intelligence Division and Inspector John B. Hotis,
Legal Counsel Division.
Oct14395-1391
FEB 24 1976

At the outset of the Session, Mr. Schwartz explained
that this was a continuation of the Executive Session on 2/6/76
in an effort to assist the SSC in drafting legislation outlining
the Bureau's responsibility for domestic intelligence investiga-
tions which goes beyond criminal investigations. He noted
that at the closing of the past Executive Session,
Mr. Shackelford had stated the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA)

62-116395
MDR 16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERE IN SYNCLASSIFIER Pamlet
GJL:rsm
(11)
84 FEB 2 5 1976
NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 13
1118700
BY
CONTINUED OVER

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

and the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) had been involved in
planning or organizing numerous large demonstrations in the
country and he desired to continue this discussion. A list of
major demonstrations with resulting damages and arrests which
occurred in the U.S. during the past ten years involving
subversive groups was furnished by Mr. Shackelford. A
discussion followed regarding the role of the FBI in gathering
intelligence information concerning the demonstrations as well
as the dissemination of the information which had been obtained.
Mr. Schwartz questioned the authority of the FBI in investigating
infiltrated groups such as the National Peace Action Coalition
(NPAC) and the Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice (PCPJ)
even though both groups were either dominated or influenced
by the CPUSA or the SWP.

A discussion then followed as to what effect the
enactment of the Privacy Act has on the investigation by the
FBI of domestic subversive groups. A request was made
concerning instructions which have been sent to the field by
FBIHQ concerning this matter.

The Session then turned to investigation of extremist
groups and the use of informants in these groups to obtain
advance information to prevent acts of violence. Specific
cases of this type were read into the record by Mr. Deegan.
Mr. Gitenstein questioned the authority of the Bureau to
place informants into these extremist groups without the
ingredient of violence present.

This Executive Session was adjourned at approximately
12:45 p.m. and no request was made at that time for another
Executive Session.

OBSERVATIONS:

From statements made by Mr. Schwartz and other SSC
staff members present, with the possible exception of Mr. Mark
Gitenstein, it appeared that these individuals continue to be
opposed to legislation authorizing Bureau investigations int he
domestic intelligence area unless the threat of violeme is
imminent. Mr. Gitenstein in his discussion concerning the use

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 14
2

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

of informants in extremist groups appeared to want to
include in the record acts of violence which have been
prevented because of infiltration by informants in these
groups. It does appear, therefore, that he may be more
favorably inclined towards the Bureau's position in these
matters.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the SSC Unit, Intelligence Division, communicate
with a member of the SSC staff regarding Privacy Act material
and/or instructions desired by the Committee.

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 15
سلام
3

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its vse is limed to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI
•
Assoc. Dir.
REC-100

Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
2
62-116 395-13901
The Attorney General
Director, FBI
U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
1
1
1
1
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 1
1
-
-
-
-
Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1
-
Mr. J. B. Hotis)
Mr. W. R. Wannall
December 19, 1975
-
Mr. D. W. Moore
Mr. H. E. Helgeson
- Mr. W. O. Cregar
-
-
Mr. J. G. Deegan
Mr. T. J. Seabaugh
Mr. J. D. Powell
This is to call to your attention a most serious
breach of the confidentiality that must be afforded the
material and information that this Bureau has furnished to
the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Enclosed
for your approval and delivery, preferably to SSC Chairman
Senator Frank Church personally, is a memorandum which sets
forth this incident in detail for the SSC, states the
seriousness with which this matter is viewed and which
requests the SSC to advise whether they did, in fact,
publicly disclose the identity of former FBI informant
George F. Dorsett as alleged and if so, the basis for such
disclosure.

UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FILED IN
ک
of tot
NOT DELIVERED TO sse.

He
George F. Dorsett was an FBI informant from
January, 1959, to October, 1970. He was discontinued as an
informant when his activity in the Klan ceased, at which timg
his relationship with the Bureau continued to be excellent.
has not been disclosed publicly as an FBI informant. Dorsett did
in fact separate from the United Klans of America (UKA) and
form the Confederate Knights of the Ku Klux Klan (CKKKK). He
formed the CKKKK on his own initiative; however, we utilized
this opposing Klan organization through Dorsett as a means
of disrupting and causing confusion and dissension within the
Klan.
Enclosures (2) OS
62-116395
-
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
1
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
1
-
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
MDR 16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
FBREIN UNCLASSIFIED
DATE
The Deputy Attorney General
18/00 BY SP2ALM/ENC
Attention: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Charlotte
1 137-4853
-
Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination
TELETYPE UNIT
JDP:lek (16) 12K
MAIL ROOM
84 MAR-3 MAR
NW 88608 DocId: 62989578 Page 16
SEE NOTE PAGE 3
SEE NOT PG 3
GPO: 1975 0569-920

The Attorney General

The handling agent assisted Dorsett in
preparing a letter announcing his resignation from the UKA
and his formation of the CKKKK. This letter invited Dorsett's
friends in the Klan to join him in the CKKKK. A total of
41 chapters of the CKKKK were chartered; however, all of them
did not become effective operating chapters.

The documents delivered to the SSC were excised to
delete Dorsett's name as an informant. Charlotte airtel dated
August 22, 1967, and C. D. Brennan memorandum to W. C. Sullivan
dated August 24, 1967, set forth the recommendation and
approval for the mailing of a letter from Dorsett to all Klan
units in North Carolina announcing his resignation from the UKA
and the formation of the CKKKK. Dorsett's name is deleted from
these documents; however, it is clear that the informant was
preparing the letter. Charlotte airtel to the Director
September 13, 1967, refers to the August 22, 1967, Charlotte
airtel and states that the referenced airtel recommended Bureau
approval for a letter to be mailed over the signature of
Reverend George F. Dorsett under the above conditions.
name is not deleted from this document. From the above
documents Dorsett's identity can readily be established as the
FBI informant.

Dorsett's
In the December 6, 1975, issue of the "Charlotte
Observer" a daily Charlotte, North Carolina, morning
newspaper there is a front page article captioned "FBI Started
41 North Carolina Klan Units, Morgan Says." In this article,
North Carolina Senator Robert Morgan, member of the SSC, said
the FBI organized 41 KKK units in North Carolina during the 1960's
as part of its campaign against the white supremacist group.
Morgan was also quoted as saying, "The vast majority of
people in the Klan in North Carolina were law-abiding citizens.

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 17
-
2 -

The Attorney General

There may have been some violence, but we're not even sure
about that now." Morgan is further quoted as saying, "There
is nothing basically wrong with having an informer in any
organization but when these informers do more than just listen,
when they instigate trouble, that's wrong." Morgan also said
the FBI financed the operations of the Federally organized
Klaverns.

As set forth in the enclosed memorandum, Mr. Dorsett
was interviewed on December 12, 1975, by Charlotte, North
Carolina, FBI Agents at which time he expressed his concern
for his personal safety and for his family as well, as well as
concern for the safety of his personal property.

As stated above this matter is considered to be a
most serious breach of the confidentiality that must be afforded
the material and information that this Bureau has furnished to
the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. It is
respectfully requested that the enclosed memorandum be
delivered to Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the SSC,
personally. Please advise what action is taken concerning
this matter.

NOTE:

See Memorandum J. G. Deegan to Mr. W. R. Wannall,
prepared by JDP:lek, dated 12/16/75.
INSTRUCTIONS
LHM NOT DELIVERED
TO SSC PER STEVEN
BLACKHURST, DEP. SPECIAL
COUNSEL FOR INTELLIGENCE
COORDINATION, USDJ,
OF DAG TYLER.

NW 88608 Docld:32989578 Page 18
3-23-76
-
3-

1 Mr. J. B. Adams
-

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1 Mr. J. B. Hotis)
-
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. D. W. Moore
1
- Mr. H. E. Helgeson
December 19, 1975

62-116395 1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
MDR 16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 18/00 BY
EP 2 ALMIEHL
Assoc. Dir.

1
- Mr. J. G. Deegan
1
- Mr. T. J. Seabaugh
1
- Mr. J. D. Powell

This is to call attention to the following incident
which is a most serious breach of the confidentiality that must
be afforded the material and information that this Bureau has
furnished to the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence:

The December 10, 1975, issue of the "Greensboro Daily
News," Greensboro, North Carolina, contains on page one an
article captioned "Greensboro Man Named As FBI Klan Informant,"
by Jack Betts, Daily News Washington Bureau. The article
states in part:

"Washington - A Greensboro man long active in the
Ku Klux Klan has been identified as an informant for the
Federal Bureau of Investigation's campaign to disrupt the
KKK in North Carolina during the latter 1960's.

"A Senate Intelligence Committee source said Tuesday
that George F. Dorsett, former Imperial Kludd (National Chaplain)
of the United Klans of America, was a paid FBI informant who,
with the FBI's assistance, broke away from the Klan in 1967 to
form a rival group.

"The source said Dorsett was named in FBI documents
