JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10193-10258
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 94-37374-2ND NR 35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DONAHOE, S. B.
TO: BELMONT, A. H.
TITLE:
DATE: 09/23/1960
'PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: JFK, SPEECH, REACTION, UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS:

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

v9.1
NW 88608 Docld:32285482 Page 1
15

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GOVER(IENT
Memorandum

TO A. H. Belmont
FROM S. B. Donahoe

SUBJECT: UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC REACTION TO
SPEECH OF SENATOR JOHN KENNEDY
INTERNAL SECURITY UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC

TOP SECRET

United Arab Republic (UAR) Ambassador to U.S. advised
his country 8/26/60 Senator John Kennedy delivered speech to
Zionist's Congress re solution Arab-Israeli dispute. UAR
Ambassador stated speech contained fallacies and exaggerated
statements and promises. UAR Ambassador subsequently contacted
by Senator J. W. Fulbright, Chairman, Foreign Relations Committee,
who apologized for Kennedy's speech and explained it was dictated
by political expediency.

On 9/22/60, National Security Agency furnished an
intercept of coded diplomatic traffic from U AR Ambassador to
Cairo, dated 8/26/60, classified "Top Secret Daunt" as it
relates to communications intelligence

According to the intercept, UAR Ambassador claimed
Senator Fulbright stated Kennedy's speech was not an expression
of what could be considered policy of Democratic administration
with Kennedy as President.

UAR Ambassador reportedly advised Senator Fulbright
of (Ambassador's official displeasure with Senator Kennedy's
speech as it was replete with fallacies and bias and disparagements
regarding UAR rights and disregarded UAR feelings, thus indicating
Senator Kennedy places personal interest before justice and
interests of U.S. Senator Fulbright was advised continued efforts
to obtain Jewish votes at expense of Arabs will have serious con-
sequences, and (UAR Ambassador expected Senator Fulbright to exert
efforts to end such activities. Senator Fulbright stated he would
attempt to comply with this request

UAR Ambassador advised his superiors Senator Fulbright
contacted him probably after consulting with Senator Kennedy
whose speech was motivated by Senator Kennedy's desire to
obtain Jewish, Catholic, and Negro minority votes in order to
compensate for his loss of votes among Protestant majority which
opposes Kennedy because of his Catholicism. The Ambassador was

VERCLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR 32647
(6DECLASSIFY ON: 25X /
1520CT 7 1980 COPY TO MR. TOLSON

Teleen
Mohr
Parsons
Belmont
Ruehl
Callahan
Loach
Malone
McGuire
Rosen
Trotter
Sallivan
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy
Date of Deca Michison indeliaito

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

NOT RECORDED
16.OCT 3 1960
18 SEP 29.1960

ITAT, INT. SEC.

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN 109-12-376-

for John F. KENNEDY

NW 88608 Docld:32285482 Page 2

Memo Donahoe to Belmont
RE: UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC REACTION TO
SPEECH OF SENATOR JOHN KENNEDY

of the opinion purpose of speech was solely to obtain Jewish
votes rather than to formulate party or governmental policy.
He believed such speeches are consistent with Zionist's efforts
to create breech between UAR and other governments

It was opinion of UAR Ambassador that Senator Fulbright's
visit with him not be disclosed.7
RECOMMENDATION:
For information.

TOP SECRET
-2-
berne
9/24

NW 88608 Docld:32285482 Page 3
