AGENCY : FBI
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10495
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-95507-1, 2, 3, 4, 5

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Date: 05/09/98
Page : 1

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, NK
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE: 01/31/61
PAGES: 45
SUBJECTS: EEA, REL, RES, TRA, BKG, EMP, PRO-CASTRO ACT, ARREST,
ARMS SMUGGLING, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/08/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: INC 3 MEMO, A/T, RPT, 5 S/S

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 1

2025 Release under the President
John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10,
5010-104

UNITED STATES GO NMENT
Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (105-95507) DATE: 5/5/61

FROM : SAC, NEWARK (105–9440) ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 4-29-94/BY SPOMAC/EH
SUBJECT: EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER, Aka. CONFIDENTIAL
IS-CUBA

Re report of SA HERBERT L. BLOM at Newark dated
4/25/61.

Bureau authority is requested to interview subject
in accordance with existing instructions relating to inter-
views of security subjects. If this subject is co-operative,
no affirmative steps will be taken during the initial inter-
view to direct her activities and complete background
investigation required by Section 107C of the Manual of
Instructions is being conducted and Bureau will be requested
to authorize recontact with subject as a PSI. 4

A. Subject resides at Box 208, Route 36, Union
Beach, New Jersey (mailing address is Keyport, N. J.); she
is employed as a cashier at Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, N. J.
She was born 5/19/61, Newark, N. J., and is a U. S. citizen.
Her health appears to be satisfactory.
NO LOC

B. She was formerly married to WALTER/KORABIAK. Her
probation record notes she is divorced from him and that he
resides in California

C. Subject was convicted in 1958 for conspiracy
and unlawful possession of firearms. Investigation reflects
close association with MANUEL ARQUES and was assisting in
plan to return CARLOS PRIO to power in Cuba. She has
continued association with ARQUES since her conviction.
WS, A

D. No information available. CONFIDENTIAL

E. No information available.

F. A news interview of subject contained in
a local newspaper on 3/26/61 reflects a purported change
in her attitude against CASTRO, whereas at one time she had
favored what CASTRO stood for.

2 Bureau (RM) See Bureau
332605-955-07-5
1 Newark APPROVED 5/15/6/EX, 3te Bage 2
HLB: mad (Date)
Submit results in for REPORT
suitable for dissemination.
Bufiles contain no additional
pertinent information
Figentifiable with sübject.

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 2

NK 105-9440
CONFIDENTIAL

G. If co-operative and if her confidence can be
gained, it is believed that she could furnish valuable
information concerning current Cuban matters based on her
association with persons who have been so involved. X (4)

Bureau note:

Current inquiries of subject are based on report that subject
was prasing Castro in her conversations. Since she has
apparently changed her attitude towards Castro, an interview
of her would be logical method to determine if she possesses
any information of value regarding the Cuban situation and to
appraise, her informant potential.
(u)

CONFIDENTIAL

2

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 3

4-22 (Rev. 1-22-60)
"Federal Bureau of Investigation
Records Brar
1961

Name Searching Unit Room 6527
Service Unit Room 6524
Forward to File-Review
Attention
Return to
Amer 1531 486
Supervisor Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:
Regular Request (Analytical Search)
All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)
Subversive References Only
Nonsubversive References Only
Main References Only

Type of Search Requested:
Restricted to Locality of
Exact Name Only (On the Nose)
Buildup Variations

Subject Evelun Eleanore Archer
Birthdate & Place 5-19-21 N.J.
Address sted 2-8-61
Localities
R Date 5-11 Searcher
Initials

Prod. FILE NUMBER SERIAL
MF 105-95507

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 5-3.94 BY SP8MAC/EH
(JFK)

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 4

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)
1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
NEWARK NEWARK 4/25/61 1/24/61 - 4/20/61
TITLE OCHANGED REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER, aka. HERBERT L. BLOM vwb
Evelyn Archer, Mrs. Walter CHARACTER OF CASE
Korabiak, Ruby Archer, Regmu
Archer, Ruby Korbin IS - CUBA

The title is marked "Changed" to show subject's full
name as EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER and to make addition of the
following names: REGMU ARCHER, RUBY KORBIN. Title was previously
EVELYN ARCHER, aka. Mrs. Walter Korabiak, Ruby Archer.

REFERENCES CC TO:
REQ. REC'D.10.26.64
Newark letter to Bureau, 1/31/61. ANS.
OCT 2 8 1964
Miami airtel to Bureau, 2/6/61.
Bureau letter to Newark, 2/16/61.
Houston letter to Bureau, 3/7/61.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Newark indices contain no identifiable references con-
cerning MANUEL ARTAS, MANDEL ARQVES or MANUEL ARQUES.

Miami indices contain no references to HYMAN GOTTSMAN.

Bureau files contain no additional pertinent information

APPROVED SPECIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
IN CHARGE
COPIES MADE:
PUB
WN
9 Bureau (105-95507) (RM)
105-95507-4 MCT-20
514 REC- 71
1 - Miami (105-3507) (Info.) (RM) 17 APR 26 1961
3 - Newark (105-9440)

Agency Notations
Dissemination Record of Attached Report
Request Recd. Copy to: CIA/State/RAB
Date Fwd.
we
How Ewa
By
1/OSI/G2
routing slip for info.
4-29-964. INT. SEC
SPRIMACLEN (JPK)
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED #211,326,
DATE 12/3/84 BY SP66JA/GL
3/5/85 SP6BJA/GCL #211,326
62 MAY 10 1961

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 5

NK 105-9440

concerning the subject or MANUEL ARQUES than made available in
Miami airtel to Bureau, dated 2/6/61.

BERNARD HOLMES BRENNAN, mentioned in instant report,
is Former MM 715-S who, during 10/60, publicly disclosed his
former association as a Bureau informant.

INFORMANTS
Identity of Source File Number Where Located

NK T-1 105-9440-2
JOSEPH QUAIL
Health Inspector
Middletown Township, N.J.
(By Request)

NK T-2 105-9440-2
ALICE DONNELLY
New Jersey Bell Telephone Company
English Plaza
Red Bank, N.J.
(By Request)

NK T-3 105-9440-3
Mrs. PEG MUNDEN
Southern Bell Telephone and
Telegraph Company
Miami Beach, Florida
(By Request)

Careful consideration has been given to each source
concealed and T-symbols were utilized only in those instances
where the identities of the sources must be concealed.

LEADS
NEWARK DIVISION

AT NEWARK, N.J.

Will request Bureau authority to interview subject.

MIAMI (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnished Miami for
their information in view of their interest in MANUEL ARQUES and
inasmuch as subject periodically visits Miami.
-B*-
COVER PAGE

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 6

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)
T

Copy to:
UED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
C

Report of: HERBERT L. BLOM Office: NEWARK, NEW JERSEY
Date: April 25, 1961
Field Office File #:105-9440 Bureau File #: 105-95507
Title: EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

Character: IS - CUBA Classmed by
Examps from GDS. Colegory
Synopsis: Date of Declassification Indennite

In 1/61, subject was praising CASTRO and in conversa-
tion with NK T-1, asked if he was interested in making
money and if so, she would have him meet a friend from
either Cuba or Miami. NK T-l, in 4/61, advised subject
has made no further mention concerning this matter.
Previous investigation shows subject has been associated
with Cubans involved in Cuban affairs, Probation
records show subject and others were arrested during
2/58, in Texas, charged with conspiracy and unlawful
possession of firearms. On 7/11/58, subject was
sentenced in U.S.D.C., Houston, Texas, two years and
fined $500.00, but was placed on 22 months probation,
Background information and association with MANUEL
ARQUES set forth. 3/26/61 issue of "Asbury Park Sunday
Press" contains interview by reporter showing subject's
present attitude concerning Cuba,
- PDECLASSIFIED
ON
CLASSIFIED SPO BIANGCL
12/3/8 #215336
3/5/5 SP6BJA/GOO #211,326
DETAILS:
On January 24, 1961, NK T-1 advised that several months
previously, while talking to the subject at a bar, she was praising
FIDEL CASTRO and what he was doing for Cuba. Later in the con-
versation, she asked the informant how he felt about making a
"buck" or if he cared how he made it. NK T-1, in going along with
the conversation, stated to her that he was interested in making
money, to which she replied that she was expecting a friend from
either Cuba or Miami (not recalled by NK T-1) and that when he
arrived she would have them get together.
CONFIDENTIAL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

JFR
NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 7

NK 105-9440

Since that time, according to NK T-1, subject has made
no further mention of this matter, although he has seen her on
several occasions. NK T-1 said he had heard it rumored that
the subject has been involved in the sale of guns to Cuba in the
past, as well as having visited Cuba since CASTRO took power, but
did not know this of his own knowledge.

NK T-1 said that ARCHER is divorced from her husband,
has two children and resides with her mother, ANA ARCHER, on
Route 36, Union_Beach, New Jersey. He added that she is employed
as a cashier at Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, New Jersey.APPROX. 1902

It is to be noted that during the course of another
vestigation the subject's mother, ANNA ARCHER, was interviewed at
her home by SA VICTOR J. CAMPI, on July 6, 1960, concerning an
abandoned car found near her home. Upon requesting a paper upon
which she said she had written the license number of the abandoned
car, Mrs. ARCHER started to enter the next room, at which time a
woman's voice, in a loud tone, objected to an effort to open the
door. Mrs. ARCHER said her daughter was making a phone call and
that when the call was completed she would obtain the requested
item. Shortly thereafter, the subject emerged from the next room
stating she had been interrupted making a very important telephone
call
a call to Cuba. She did not identify the individual to
whom she was talking nor did she furnish any information con-
cerning this telephone conversation.
--

On October 6, 1960, Captain WALTER HUTTON, Union Beach,
New Jersey, Police Department, advised SA CAMPI that the subject
had two brothers, noting that one brother, FREDDIE ARCHER, was
a well-known_boxer. He noted that the subject had been married
to a local man but had stopped living together in the late 1940s
and since that time her mother, ANNA ARCHER, has been helping to
rear the two children from that marriage. Captain HUTTON did not
know how the subject made her living, but it was his opinion she
probably had boyfriends who kept her, that she did a bit of
traveling with her boyfriends but always returned to visit her
children. He said the subject was also known under the name
RUBY KORBIN.

In the course of another investigation, Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax Division (ATTD) Agent JOHN C. MULLIN, on January 18,
1960, advised SA LINCOLN J. STOKES that the last girlfriend of
CHARLIE "THE BLADE TOURINE was a girl named EVELYN ARCHER
(phonetic) of Houston, Texas. He said this girl was married and
may be involved in gun purchasing and selling.

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 8
2
-

CONENTIAL

NK 105-9440

On January 24, 1961, NK T-2 advised that ANNA ARCHER,
Route 36, Union Beach, New Jersey, is the subscriber to
Colfax 4-2033 and that the following toll calls had been made
from this number:

October 21, 1960 Call from Mrs. FNU ARCHER to
MANDEL ARQVES at Havana 77241

November 18, 1960 Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

November 24, 1960 Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

December 3, 1960 Collect call to MANUEL ARTAS AND
from Miami (JE 1-7635) to
CO 4-2033

The above information cannot be made public except in
the usual proceeding following the issuance of a subpoena duces
tecum.

On January 25, 1961, Mr. EMERSON TSCHUPP, Deputy
Director, Enforcement Division, New Jersey State Alcohol Beverage
Control, 1100 Raymond Boulevard, Newark, New Jersey, advised SA
JACK W. SUNDERLAND that as of October 21, 1959, the subject was
listed as an employee at Ye Cottage Inn, 149 West Front Street,
Keyport, New Jersey, as a cashier.

On January 26, 1961, Birth Records were made available
to SA SUNDERLAND at the Bureau of Vital Statistics, City Hall,
Newark, New Jersey, wherein it was noted that one REGMU (not
completely legible) ARCHER was born May 19, 1921, at Newark, New
-
Jersey. This record noted a name change to EVELYN ARCHER on
June 8, 1936. The address where the birth occurred was 326 18th
Avenue, Newark, New Jersey. Her parents were listed as FREDERICK B. APPRO 760,
ARCHER, age 21, a toolmaker, born in Newark, New_Jersey, and ANNA
FIOLA, age 19, born in Newark, New Jersey.

In an effort to check divorce records concerning the
subject, the following departments were contacted with negative
results:

January 30, 1961 Mrs. ELSIE WALZER, Docket Clerk,
Monmouth County Clerk's Office,
Freehold, New Jersey,

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 9
- 3 -

CONSIDENTIAD

NK 105-9440

February 7, 1961 Records of New Jersey Superior
Court, West State Street, Trenton,
New Jersey, checked by SA NORMAN
A. HENDRICKS.

January 26, 1961 Miss FRANCES BEAM, Essex County
Clerk's Office, Hall of Records,
Newark, New Jersey, contacted by
SA JACK W. SUNDERLAND.

On January 25, 1961, JOHN MILES, Monmouth County Identi-
fication Bureau, Freehold, New Jersey, advised the files of his
office contained no record concerning the subject.

SELMA JENNINGS, Credit Bureau of Central New Jersey,
103 East Front Street, Red Bank, New Jersey, advised on January
26, 1961, that according to her records EVELYN ARCHER, Box 408,
Union Beach, New Jersey, (Keyport, New Jersey, mailing address)
(AL. was listed as a widow and that as of April 12, 1949, there was an
account listed to her under the name of EVELYN and WALTER
WALTER KAWARIA
KORABIAK, RD 1, Box 408, Keyport, New Jersey. Her credit record
was listed as a troublesome account and showed previous employ-
ments at The Magnolia Inn, Matawan, New Jersey, on March 19, 1957,
and at Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, New Jersey, on June 2, 1953.
AKA-KOBERTR.MKKEOWW
458

On February 18, 1958, upon the basis of information
furnished by the San Antonio Office concerning the purchase of a
TEXAS boat by ROBERT MC-KEOWN, determined to be the BUDDY DEE, United
States Customs took possession of this vessel which had departed
from Patterson, Louisiana, for Houston, Texas, with MANUEL ARQUES,
RUBY ARCHER, also known as EVELYN ARCHER, of Keyport, New Jersey,
and ABELARDO RENE PUJOL Y BARRERA on board.
FLORIDA
The February 26, 1958, issue of the "Miami Herald" CUBA
carried an article entitled, "Arms Plot Suspect Surrenders,"
bearing a Houston, Texas, dateline. This article revealed that
ROBERT MC KEOWN had surrendered Tuesday and was charged immedi-
ately with two counts of violating the National Firearms Act.
This article disclosed that MC KEOWN was described by Federal
authorities as the "mystery man" in the Houston phase of an
alleged plot to supply Cuban nationals with firearms.

On April 4, 1961, the subject's file was made available
to SA DANIEL E. BRANDT by BRAYTON CRIST, United States Probation
Officer, Trenton, New Jersey.

The file shows EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER, RD 1, Box 208,
Keyport, New Jersey, was arrested during February, 1958, at
42
NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 10
4
CONFIDENTIAL

NK 105-9440

Seabrook, Texas, and charged with conspiracy and unlawful pos-
session of firearms. The co-defendants in the case were listed
as MANUEL ARQUES, MARIO SILVERIO VILLAMINA, FRANCISCO GONZALES 2.
OBREGON and ABELARDO PUJOL BARRERA

On July 11, 1958, the subject was sentenced in United
States District Court, Southern District of Texas, Houston, Texas,
to two years and a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). On
August 12, 1958, the sentence was reduced to 18 months - suspended,
22 months probation and a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine. The
fine was paid by the subject on July 17, 1958.

A letter dated June 23, 1958, from the United States
Probation Office, Houston, Texas, to the Probation Office, Trenton,
New Jersey, indicated the subject had been involved in a conspiracy
to take part in a military expedition and enterprise to be carried
on from within the United States against Cuba. The letter con-
tinued that the subject, who had represented herself as Mrs.
MANUEL ARQUES but who was not married to ARQUES, had met ARQUES
in Miami, Florida, while on vacation. ARQUES' father, who was
on the Miami Police Department, was known to CARLOS/PRIO, former
President of Cuba. The subject was assisting ARQUES in a plan to
have PRIO returned to control in Cuba in place of BATISTE, for
which ARQUES would be given a high government position. The fire-
arms which were in the possession of the subject were to be sent
to CASTRO by boat.

The subject's parole supervision was transferred to
Trenton, New Jersey, on September 22, 1958.

On October 13, 1958, the subject testified in United
States District Court, Houston, Texas, against ROBERT R. MC KEOWN,
and en route to Texas she visited Miami, Florida, and on returning
to New Jersey visited Key West, Florida,

During January, 1959, the subject went to Miami, Florida,
without obtaining permission, and on January 23, 1959, she and
ARQUES appeared at the United States Probation Office, Miami, and
asked for permission to return to Cuba. Her address at that time
was 2350 S. W. 13th Street, Miami, Florida. Permission for her to
go to Cuba was denied by the Judge at United States District Court,
Houston, Texas.

The supervision of the subject's parole was transferred
to Miami, Florida, on February 12, 1959, and she returned to her
Keyport, New Jersey, address on July 10, 1959. She visited ARQUES
at Miami on November 4, 1959, residing care of Mrs. R. GOODMAN,
XENTAD5
- ADDRESS: 342 NE. 3584
MIAMI, FLORIDA
i
NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 11

NK 105-9440

342 N. E. 35th Street, Miami, Florida, and returned to New Jersey
on November 18, 1959. She went to Miami on March 25, 1960, where
she lived at the Hotel America until she returned to New Jersey
on April 11, 1960. u

The files show the subject's probation expired on June
12, 1960, and that during June, 1960, she was going to accompany
her boyfriend, MANUEL ARQUES, to Canada, where he was going to
promote tourist trade to Cuba. After her trip to Canada, she and
ARQUES were going to marry and return to Cuba.u

The file contained the following background information:

Name EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER
Date of Birth May 19, 1921, Newark, New Jersey
Race White
Sex Female
Address RD 1, Box 208, Keyport, New
Jersey
Occupation Cashier and waitress
Employer : Cottage Inn, Keyport, New
Jersey
Father FRED ARCHER, 34 Cale Crespis,
Santa Barbara, California
Mother ANNA ARCHER, Keyport, New
Jersey
Son JEFFERY
Daughter VALERIE
Ex-Husband WALTER KORBIAC, California

On August 5, 1960, MICHAEL A. ROMANO, United States
Customs, Miami, Florida, advised SA WILLIAM P. KELLY the name
"RUBY ARCHER, Box 208, Keyport, N.J." was found among other
names and addresses in the possession of MANUEL ARQUES on July
22, 1960, on which date ROMANO searched the baggage and person
of ARQUES at Miami International Airport, following ARQUES' re-
turn from Havana on that date.

On March 25, 1960, BERNARD HOLMES BRENNAN, Moodus,
Connecticut, advised SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN, at Miami, that as of
March 25, 1960, MANUEL ARQUES was dating a girl named EVELYN
ARCHER, who then lived at the American Hotel, 273 N.E. Second
Street, Miami.

On October 26, 1960, BRENNAN advised he went to Havana
to meet ARQUES during September, 1960. He stated that while at
Havana, "RUBY," not further identified, was there with ARQUES.
!
NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 12
-- 6 -

i
CONDOENTIAL

NK 105-9440
,
BRENNAN stated "RUBY" was worried about her parents knowing she
was in Cuba, and she expressed concern about the large number of
Chinese men at the Commodore Hotel, Havana, whom she saw eating
on one occasion, and stated she did not like it at all. U

MANUEL ARQUES, a self-admitted supporter of CARLOS PRIO,
exiled former President of Cuba, and naturalized United States
citizen of Cuban birth, formerly was Publicity Director of the
Cuban Tourist Commission at Miami until he resigned during Novem-
ber, 1960. ARQUES has been identified by several sources as having
been an intelligence agent in the United States for JUAN ORTA, who,
until recently, was the Secretary for FIDEL CASTRO.
(4)

How-
Upon interview by Bureau Agents on December 1, 1960,
ARQUES denied ever having been a Cuban intelligence agent.
ever, he admitted sending written and verbal messages to ORTA
during 1959 concerning activities in the United States of
"Batistianos." ARQUES stated he was not in accord with policies
of the Castro Government and considered communism to be dominant
in the Castro regime. (4)

On January 20, 1961, ARQUES advised SA WILLIAM P. KELLY
that his residence then was 1050 N. W. Seventh Street, Miami,
Florida.

On February 3, 1961, NK T-3 advised that telephone
number JE 1
7635 was listed to HYMANY GOTTSMAN, 1225 11th
Street, Apartment 2, Miami Beach, Florida.
-

The above records are confidential and can only be ob-
tained through issuance of a subpoena duces tecum.

The March 26, 1961, issue of "The Asbury Park Sunday
Press" carried the following article concerning the subject
following an interview by CHARLES BROWER, Press Staff Writer:

"SHORE WOMAN WHO AIDED CASTRO
SORRY, SAYS CUBANS LIKE US

" By CHARLES BROWER
Press Staff Writer

" UNION BEACH -- Despite FIDEL CASTRO's hate America cam-
paign, the average Cuban holds no dislike for Americans.

This is the observation of a local woman who aided, in
what she terms a minor way, the young Cuban dictator's
rise to power over three years ago.
7
-

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 13
i

NK 105-9440

" Miss EVELYN ARCHER, Rte. 36, who helped supply arms
to Cuban rebels prior to CASTRO's victory over former
Cuban strongman FULGENCIO BATISTA, said she is 'sad and
unhappy' at the results of the Cuban revolution.

" 'The Cuban people do not hate Americans.'
" Many Ask About Americans

" In fact, she said, many Cubans ask if the Americans
really hate them.

" Miss ARCHER said she was received warmly by Cubans
both in Havana and in the interior during a visit to
the island last fall. 'They treated me wonderfully,'
she said.

" 'CASTRO has betrayed the people who put him in power.
He has not kept the many promises he made after his
victory early in 1959.'

" Among the unkept promises made by the bearded dicta-
tor were free elections throughout Cuba within a year.

" Arrested in Texas

" 'The Cuban people want to live under a democracy; they
do not want communism,' she asserted. 'CASTRO,' she
said, 'certainly leans toward communism.'

" Miss ARCHER and five other Cuban rebel sympathizers
were arrested three years ago in Texas as they attempted
to ship arms to rebels in Cuba. She was fined and given
an 18-month suspended jail sentence after pleading no
defense to charges of conspiracy to overthrow the Cuban
government headed by BATISTA.

" The attractive brunette was also placed on probation
for 22 months and barred from traveling to Cuba during
the probation period.

" 'I'm not ashamed of what I did. I'm only sorry it has
turned out the way it has,' she said.

" Asked if she would do it all over again she declared
she would but 'not exactly in the same way.'
NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 14
8
-

WXNTIAD

NK 105-9440

11 Minor Role

" Miss ARCHER became involved in the Cuban revolution
through Cuban friends she had met during visits to
Cuba and Miami. Her part was only a minor one, she
says.

" She is reluctant to publicly bring up her past asso-
ciations with the Cuban revolution, but agreed only
to convey to Americans the message that the Cuban
people simply have nothing against Americans.

" 'More and more people are breaking away from the
CASTRO regime each day. They are escaping into the
hills and out of the country by any means possible.
Thousands have been granted political asylum in this
country.'

" Miss ARCHER said she holds high hopes for the future
liberation of the Cuban people. Although she said
she is not associated now with revolutionary movements
and knows of no specific plans to overthrow CASTRO she
added it is readily known that such movements are
active.

" 'Many of the groups have been organizing in Miami,'
she said.

" Friends she had been associated with in aiding the
revolution have all defected from Cuba since her visit
last fall. It is for this reason, she said, she would
not dare return to Cuba as long as CASTRO is in power.

" 'Crazy With Power'

" When asked why CASTRO has failed to keep his promises
and to bring freedom to Cuba, Miss ARCHER replied that
'he has perhaps gone crazy with power.'
!
:
1

11 She added that his luster as a hero is wearing off.

11 Miss ARCHER is employed as a hostess in a Shore restau-
rant. She was born in Newark and moved here about 14
years ago. She lives with her mother, Mrs. ANNA ARCHER."
NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 15
9

NK 105-9440

On April 18, 1961, NK T-1 advised that the subject
was still working at the Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, New Jersey,
and in recent conversation with her, she has made no further
mention concerning their conversation in January, 1961, whereby
she had stated she would introduce him to a friend of hers from
Cuba or Miami. Upon viewing photographs of MANUEL ARQUES, he
said this person was unknown to him.

The following physical description of the subject was
obtained from the New Jersey Department of Motor Vehicles, Trenton,
New Jersey, on February 7, 1961, by SA NORMAN A. HENDRICKS and
from personal observation:

Name EVELYN ARCHER
Residence Box 208, Route 36, Keyport,
New Jersey
Race White
Sex Female
Hair Brown
Eyes Brown
Complexion Dark
Height Five feet, three inches
Weight Approximately 135 pounds

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 16
- 10*

FD-22313-58-
१०).
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Newark, New Jersey
April 25, 1961
TMENT OF JUSTICE
TIGATION
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVES
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No. NK 105-9440

Title EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

Character IS CUBA
Reference Report of SA HERBERT L. BLOM
dated April 25, 1961, at Newark.

All sources (except any listed below) used in referenced
communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.
NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 17

FD-283 (Rev. 5-