File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

51 THRU 100

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 1

2 - Mr. S. F. Phillips
April 30, 1975

MATERIAL FOR SENATE SELECT COMMITEE (SSC)
INVESTIGATING INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

O organization

2. ORIGINATING ORGANIZATION: FBI

3. NATURE OF MATERIAL: Letterhead memorandum

4. DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

5. NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION STAMP: NA

6. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS:

LHM refers to request of the SSC for a list of
names and titles of certain FBI Intelligence Division (NTD)
personnel at FBIHQ and numbers only of certain other LTD
personnel; and relates agreement reached between FBI officials
and Mr. William Miller, Staff Director of the SSC, that the
original request be modified as follows. The FBI will prepare
the necessary list and make it available for review at FBIHQ
by appropriately cleared personnel of the SSC Staff.

7. REQUESTER/DATE OF REQUEST: SSC 3/19/75

8. RELEASING AUTHORLIY: FBI REC-106

9. DATE OF SUBMISSION: 4/8/75

16 MAY 7 197

10. LOCATION OF FILE COPY: FBI file 62-116395-53

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin,
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection

Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

11. NONE. #MOR16
ALL TUTOMATION CONTAINED
DIST 1/19/6/ SP-2ALNTERG

SFP:eku (4)

NOTE: Original via liaison to Central Community Index in
connection with Senstudy 75.

GPO 2546
NW 88608 DocId:32989628 Page 2

-113a (Rev. 3-21-73)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
DERFTA IS UNCLASSIFIED
5/12-19-8859-5 /

intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date 4/25/75

You were previously advised that
Douglas Durham, former MP 4115-E, who has
furnished high-level information regarding
activities of the American Indian Movement
(AIM), after being confronted by AIM lead-
ers, admisted being a confidential infor-
mant for the FBI. This information has
been made public.

Attached teletype from Omaha advises
that Assistant U. S. Attorney Keith E. Uhl
Office of Special Prosecutor, stated he
received a telephone call 4/24/75 from
Durham and that Durham told him he had been
contacted by representatives of the Office
of Senator Frank Church, Washington, D. С.,
requesting Durham's presence in Washington
during the week of April 28, 1975, for
purpose of attending staff meetings to
determine his potential as a witness before
committee investigating operations of the
FBI. Durham indicated he intended to com-
ply and would have no further contact with
the FBI. We are following this matter
closely and you will be kept advised.

1 - General Investigative Division
1 - Legal Counsel Division
1 - External Affairs Division
1 - William O. Cregar

WDN;It won
WRW
JEDIULIA
Jember Inas
PLM

DOJ/FBI
2

NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 3

NR005 OM PLAIN
:

4:39PM NITEL 4/24/75 RRH
TO:
FROM:

COMMIONLAFONS SECERUN
APR 241975
INFORMATION CONTAINED
N IS UNCLASSIFIED
TELETYPE12-19-88 BISP-5cl/ahn

DIRECTOR (137-33264)
MINNEAPOLIS (157-1458)
OMAHA (170-231) (P)
FORMER MP 4115-E.

:
Conf-Smit
SENStudy-T

ON APRIL 24, 1975, AUSA KEITH E. UHL, ADVISED HE
RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL FROM SUBJECT RELATING SUBJECT
HAD BEEN CONTACTED, BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE OFFICE
OF SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, WASHINGTON, D.C., REQUESTING
HIS PRESENCE IN WASHINGTON DURING WEEK OF APRIL 28,
1975, FOR PURPOSE OF STAFF MEETINGS TO DETERMINE
SUBJECT'S POTENTIAL AS WITNESS BEFORE CHURCH
COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING OPERATIONS OF THE FBI.

SUBJECT INDICATED HE INTENDED TO COMPLY WITH REQUES
AND HAD DECIDED THAT IN VIEW OF THIS DEVELOPMENT, HE
WOULD DECLINE AND NOT SOLICIT ANY FURTHER CONTACT WITH
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FBI.

END.
RSP FBIHQ
A

Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Ad
Dep.-A.D.-Inv
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com I
Gen. inv
Ident.
Iut 2lt.
Latorry
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. inv.
Training
Legal Coun
Telephone B
Director Ser

5.
Le

18 MAY 2 1975

Original Filed In 137-38564-64

DOMY 30-1975
NIVE

62-116370-A NALA
NOT RECORDED

Phil
JUN 1 1 1975
}
JUN 1.1.1075
NW-88608 -DocId32989628 Page 4

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
то
:

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
MR. W. R. WANNALL
FROM MR. W. O. CRECAS
:
CREGARO
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

:
-
Assoc. Dir.
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
Dep. AD Adm.
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
Dep. AD Inv.
DATE: April 22, 1975
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
Ext. Affairs
1 - Mr. A. L. Lacey
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
Inspection
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
Intell.
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2ALM/116
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

The purpose of this memorandum is to record that
on 4/18/75 Mr. James Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the
President, Executive Office Building, stated he had reviewed a
final copy of the Intelligence Division Position Paper on
Jurisdiction including Exhibit L, pages 36 and 37. Mr. Wilderotter
advised Bureau Supervisor Alonzo L. Lacey that The White House
interposed no objection to the Jurisdiction paper being furnished
to the Senate Select Committee.

With reference to the study entitled Intelligence
Division Position Paper on Jurisdiction, Mr. Wilderotter requested
that he be furnished a copy and this was done. In addition,
Wilderotter had previously on 4/4/75 reviewed the paper for
approval of the use of items concerning Presidential or National
Security Council interest.

ACTION:
For information and record purposes.

ALL:ekwpu
(5)
62-116395

84 ΜΑΥ 7 1975
PCM
REC-106
REC
162-11637
G
5-7

дта

NW 88608 Docld:32989628 Page 5

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
SA GEN, REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES ERNMENT
Memorandum
TO
: Mr. J. AV Mintz
1-Mr. J. A. Mintz
1-Mr.W. R. Wannall
1-Mr.W.O. Cregar
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
,
DATE: 4/7/75
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
1-Mr. A. B. Fulton
Gen. Inv.
1-Mr. A. L. Lacey, Jr.
FROM
: Mr. W. R. Wannall
SENStudy

SUBJECT INTELLIGENCE DIVISION POSITION PAPER
DATE 7-7-00 BY 3906 3. ELUTABLE/AMW
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
Ident.
Inspection
Inte
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Now Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
ON AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT NATIONAL SECURITY
INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS
curity Juridiction

The purpose of this memorandum is to summarize investigative
efforts to authenticate Hoover memoranda dated 8/24-25/36.

Document Section, FBI Laboratory, determined the type appearing
on Hoover memorandum dated 8/25/36 was prepared on a Remington typewriter
with an elite type used since October, 1935. Hoover memorandum to Tamm dated
9/10/36, was prepared on an IBM typewriter with pica-style type used since 1930.

The letterhead used on both Hoover memoranda of 8/24-25/36 was
authorized FBI stationery effective August 14, 1936.

On 3/10/75, Mr. Donald B. Schewe, Assistant Librarian, Reference
Archives, Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, New York, advised that
The White House Ushers Appointment Book contained entries showing that
on Thursday, August 24, 1936, from 9:20 a.m. to 10:12 a.m., President
Roosevelt met with Mr. Hoover in his residence at The White House prior to
leaving for his office. Schewe pointed out that this meeting was significant
since President Roosevelt met Mr. Hoover immediately after returning from
an extended trip, a departure from his usual practice. There was no entry
on 8/25/36, other than the President's departure for the Dakotas at 10:40 p.m.

On 4/2/75, review of Cordell Hull Papers, Library of Congress,
reflected that a Desk Diary (container #68, folder #295, microfilm #38) of
Secretary Hull contained an entry on 8/25/36 that the Secretary had luncheon
with the President between 1:00p.m. to 3:15 p.m.

Detailed memorandum attached.

ACTION:
For information.

ל
200
5 ENCLOSURE
Finsur
ALL: vb.
ya
INW 88608 Doald:82989628 Page 6
MW

Original Filed In

==End of OCR for page 6==