JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 04/24/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10074
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3267-366

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, LA
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 10/31/62
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : JRO, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/20/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318 Docld:34489855 Page 1

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
NOV 1 1962
TELETYPE
Mr. Tolson
Mr. Belmont
Mr. Mohr
Mr. Casper
Mr. Callahan
Mr. Conrad
Mr. DeLoach
Mr. Evans
Mr. Gale
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Tavel
Mr. Trotter
Tele. Room
Miss Holmes
Miss Gandy

URGENT 10/31/62 10-14 PM AH
TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-3267
FROM SAC, LOS ANGELEX 92-113C 2P
JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR.

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT C OBSERVED ROSSELLI AT FRIAR-S
CLUB, BEVERLY HILLS, CALIF., ABOUT FOUR P. M. OCTOBER
THIRTY LAST IN COMPANY IRVING J. LEFF, A PART OWNER, NEW
FRONTIER HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, AND AN INDIVIDUAL CALLED QUOTE
ROSS UNQUOTE. LEFF RELATED THAT DURING CUBAN CRISIS LAST
WEEK PEOPLE RUSHED TO BUY FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION AND
ROSSELLI SAID THAT HE WAS IN MIAMI DURING THIS PERIOD AND
PEOPLE THERE WERE DOING THE SAME THING.

LEFF ASKED ROSSELLI WHY HE DIDN-T CALL AND TELL LEFF
WHAT TO DO. ROSSELLI SAID HE WAS IN LAS VEGAS AND LEFF
COULD HAVE CALLED HIM BUT LEFF WAS QUOTE TOO CHEAP UNQUOTE
TO MAKE THE CALL. INFORMANT SAID THAT APPARENTLY ROSSELLI
RETURNED TO LOS ANGELES FRIDAY, OCTOBER TWENTY SIX LAST AND
THEN THE SAME NIGHT OR THE FOLLOWING MORNING DEPARTED NOV 2 1962
END PAGE ONE
5 6 NOV 8 19
ST-104 CC1531

NW 78318 Docld:34489855 Page 2
