AGENCY : FBI
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 01/21/99
Page : 1

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10223-10164
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-513

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, LA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 08/16/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : JRO, RES, TRA, ASSOC, REL, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION
: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4, SECTION 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS :
RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS
COMMENTS:

NW 78318 Docld:34489913 Page 1
2025 Release under the President John
F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)
Transmit the following in
Via
AIRTEL
AIR MAIL
FBI
Date:
8/16/63
(Type in plain text or code)
REGISTERED
(Priority or Method of Mailing)
REG/120
N2

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)
FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-1130) Last para fesz
RE: JOHN ROSELLI, aka
AR

LA 4396-C* advised ROSSELLI not at his Los Angeles
apartment from afternoon 8/9/63 until evening 8/12/63.
Whereabouts during this period unknown.

On evening of 8/13/63 neighborhood source observed
ROSSELLI leaving his apartment carrying extra clothing. He
left in his 1963 T-Bird which was being driven by a dark haired
girl who was possibly his current girl friend, NATALIE V.
LOUGHRAN, aka Vickie Lockwood. LA 4396-C* advised ROSSELLI
did not return to apartment until evening of 8/14/63. ROSSELLI
and girl may have driven to San Diego on evening 8/13/63. San
Diego Office advised that MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN registered for
apartment #146 at Half Moon Inn, San Diego, California (a $65
per day suite) on 8/13/63 and that there are "a number of
hangers on" with FRIEDMAN. San Diego has been requested to
conduct investigation to determine if ROSSELLI was also there.

LA 4268-C advised that ROSSELLI was at the Friar's
Club in Beverly Hills, California, on afternoon of 8/15/63.
While there, he called an individual named HARRY and discussed
a check and denied that he had endorsed any check. VERN
LYNCH, IRS, advised that on the morning of 8/15/63 an IRS
representative interviewed

- Bureau
Los Angeles
HFB: IJCC | SbH03
(4)
REC-120 12-3267-513
#HEL.
C
IRS [JFK Law 11(a)]
1500
inc là 3 AUG 19 1963
FX-103

Approved:
CC Wick
347
Sent
Special Agent in Charge
M
Per
NW 78318 Docld:34489913 Page 2

LA 92-1130
IRS [JFK Law 11(a)]
LA 4268-C advised that while in New York for the
past month he met U.S. Congressman ALFRED SANTANGELO of
Yorkville, N.Y., and one of SANTANGELO's first remarks was to
inquire if informant knew JOHN ROSSELLI of L.A. and added that
whenever he goes to Las Vegas or Los Angeles he stays with
ROSSELLI and spends most of his time with him. When informant
returned to Los Angeles, he mentioned SANTANGELO to ROSSELLI
and ROSSELLI commented that SANTANGELO was a good friend.

Legat, Rome, advised that check of records of births
at Caserta, Italy, and surrounding communities, failed to reveal
a record for VINCENZO, MARIA or GIOVANNI ROSELLI or ROSSELLI.
It is recalled that an informant stated he believed ROSSELLI'S
parents were from Caserta, Italy.

IRS [JFK Law 11(a)]
-2-
92-3267-515
NW 78318 Docld:34489913 Page 3
