JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10203-10294
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2713-1ST NR 516

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
Date: 04/30/98
Page : 1

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM : HAHN, DELBERT W.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE : 
DATE : 04/18/69
PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS: CM, ASSOC, INTV, MITCHELL, DAVID LYNN, RING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4, REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG
COMMENTS: REFERRED TO USCG

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 1

FEDERAL EJREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
NEW ORLEANS NEW ORLEANS 4/18/69 12/5/68 - 4/11/69
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
DAVID LYNN MITCHELL, aka SA DELBERT W. HAHN -kbz
Theft of $54,170.00 in Jewelry,
8/16/67,
West Hollywood, California; CHARACTER OF CASE
ADDIE KATHERINE EARLE - VICTIM ITSP MT;
MARGARET ELAINE ADAMS, aka; ITSP RECEIVING AND CONCEALING;
ANTHONY ROSSI aka UFAP BURGLARY AND GRAND THEFT;
Tony Rossi, HARBORING
A. Rossie,
Ovidio Limone,
Tony LaMont,
Tony Lamonte -
FUGITIVE

REFERENCES: ORIGINAL FILED 87-92096-49
New Orleans report of SA DELBERT W. HAHN, 12/2/68.
Mobile airtel to New Orleans, 1/13/69.
Sacramento report of SA DONALD H. MOE, 1/29/69.
Tampa report of SA DAVID P. GRIMES, 1/31/69.
Mobile letter to Tampa, 2/3/69.
New Olreans airtel to Sacramento, 2/11/69.
New York letter to Tampa, 2/18/69.

(References continued Cover Page B)
ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED CASE HAS BEEN:
CONVIC. AUTO. FUG. FINES SAVINGS RECOVERIES ACQUIT- PENDING OVER ONE YEAR XYES NO
TALS PENDING PROSECUTION
XYES NO
OVER SIX MONTHS

APPROVED SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE: 92-2713-
- Bureau (1 87-92096) 92-2713) NOT RECORDED
3 92-2713) 168 APR 22 1969
1 - USA, New Orleans
1 - Departmental Attorney, OWEN NEFF,
New Orleans
1 - Atlanta (87-14204) (Info.)

(Copies Made continued Cover Page B)
Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations
Agency
Request Recd.
Date Fwd.
How Fwd.
By

COVER PAGE
55MAY 13 1969

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 2

NO 87-14835

COPIES MADE (CONTINUED):

2 Houston
3 Los Angeles
(2 - 87-26930)
(1 USA, Los Angeles)
1 San Francisco (Info.).
2 Tampa
(1 88-4851)
(1 - USA, Tampa)
1 WFO (87-16906) (Info.)
5 New Orleans
(2 87-14835)
(1 92-36 )
(1 92-801)
(1 92-841)

REFERENCES (CONTINUED):

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 3
Honolulu teletype to New Orleans, 2/26/69.
New Orleans airtel to WFO, 2/27/69.
Sacramento airtel to Tampa, 2/27/69.
New Orleans airtel to Bureau, 3/12/69.
New Orleans airtel to Boston, 3/20/69.
Boston letter to New Orleans, 3/25/69.
Tampa letter to New Orleans, 3/28/69.
New York letter to New Orleans, 4/3/69.
New Orleans airtel to Atlanta, 4/4/69.
Sacramento letter to Tampa, 4/8/69.
Tampa letter to Director, 4/7/69.
Tampa report of SA DAVID P. GRIMES, 4/8/69.
New Orleans airtel to Tampa, 4/9/69.
i
-P-
-B-
COVER PAGE

NO 87-14835

INFORMANTS:

PCI ANTHONY SAM SERIO advised on 3/29/69, that he was
in the Bun Restaurant on 3/27/69, and overheard ROSSI's former
partner in conversation with an unknown person stated that ROSSI
was in San Francisco, Calif.

LEADS:

LOS ANGELES

AT WEST HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA. MITCHELL, in signed
statements, says he sold an emerald ring to New Orleans top
hoodlum and LCN member, CARLOS MARCELLO. Ring was described
by MITCHELL as "emerald ring set in platinum with twenty-two
diamond baguettes surrounding the center emerald and about
twenty-two diamond "stars" or "tips" in a second circle around
the other diamonds. This is believed to be Item #7 on the
inventory letter dated 5/25/65.

Reinterview ADDIE KATHERINE EARLE and determine which
item this ring could be and obtain from her a photograph of
the ring, if available, or a reasonably accurate sketch of the
ring.

Please expedite.

HOUSTON

AT GALVESTON, TEXAS. MITCHELL states stolen jewelry
given to one FRANK WALLS to hold.. WALLS employed at Canal
Jewelry. MITCHELL claims WALLS dated his mother, BETTY MITCHELL
(deceased),. in. 1951, when they lived in Galveston. They lived.
in an apartment adjacent to a beauty shop. The owner of the
beauty shop lived in an apartment above the beauty shop. The
shop is located "North and adjacent to the Sears Roebuck
parking lot." WALLS allegedly operated a "club" in Galveston.
The owner of the beauty shop knew his mother and WALLS.
The

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 4
-C-
COVER PAGE

NO 87-14835

LEADS (CONTINUED):

Houston is requested to attempt to locate and
identify the beauty shop owner and interview her in an effort
to verify MITCHELL's statement and identify FRANK WALLS.

Houston will also conduct credit, criminal, and
other logical checks to identify FRANK WALLS.

Expeditious handling is requested.

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. Will set out leads as
developed to locate and arrest ANTHONY ROSSI.

Will confer with AUSA and Departmental Attorney re
prosecution of ROSSI; possible appearance of DAVID LYNN MITCHELL
before Federal Grand Jury at New Orleans; and attempt to develop
prosecutable ITSP-RECEIVING violation re CARLOS MARCELLO.

Will continue investigation at Canal Jewelry to
identify FRANK WALLS.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

No report submitted prior to this time as no
information of prosecutive value obtained that was not already
known by AUSA, New Orleans. Investigation as to present where-
abouts of ANTHONY ROSSI and subsequent leads were set out in
referenced communications as developed.

Information copies are furnished to those offices
having outstanding investigation, and/or prosecution pending
or anticipated.

Copies of this report are furnished to the Bureau
for Bufile 92-2713, CARLOS MARCELLO - AR, inasmuch as MITCHELL
states he sold one of the stolen rings to MARCELLO and has
furnished signed statements to that effect. Copy of report
also disseminated to Departmental Attorney, OWEN NEFF, New
Orleans.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 5
D
COVER PAGE

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 U. S. Attorney, New Orleans, Louisiana
1 Copy to: Departmental Attorney, OWEN NEFF, New Orleans,
Louisiana
1 U. S. Attorney, Los Angeles, California
1 U. S. Attorney, Tampa, Florida
Report of: SA DELBERT W. HAHN Office: NEW ORLEANS
Date: 4/18/69

Field Office File #:
ΝΟ 87-14835 Bureau File #: 87-92096
Title: DAVID LYNN MITCHELL,
Theft of $54,170.00 in Jewelry, August 16, 1967,
West Hollywood, California;
ADDIE KATHERINE EARLE - VICTIM;
MARGARET ELAINE ADAMS;
ANTHONY ROSSI

Character: INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY -
MAJOR THEFT:
INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY -
RECEIVING AND CONCEALING;
UNLAWFUL FLIGHT TO AVOID PROSECUTION
BURGLARY AND GRAND THEFT
HARBORING

Synopsis: ROSSI
ROSSI, as OVIDIO LIMONE, obtained Coast Guard
Z card #1281740, 7/31/68, at New Orleans. ROSSI
cancelled insurance on Cadillac and by letter
requested premium refund, be forwarded to New York
address. FBI Lab identified handwriting of hotel
safe deposit box receipt as that of ANTHONY ROSSI.
DAVID LYNN MITCHELL identified photo of CARLOS
MARCELLO and furnished signed statement that he
sold emerald ring to MARCELLO in Canal Jewelry
Store for $3,000. ROSSI HAS PRIOR ARREST FOR
ASSAULT AND ROBBERY AND SHOULD BE APPROACHED
CAUTIOUSLY

DETAILS: 
٥٠٠
P
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 6

NO 87-14835

On December 3, 1968, ELIZABETH MILLER, Principal,
Peters Junior High, advised that DEBBIE PORTER ROSSI was an
eighth grade student, but has been absent since November 18,
1968. No request for forwarding of her school records has
been received. School records reflect her mother to be BARBARA
ANNE PORTER ROSSI and her father to be ANTHONY ROSSI. She
transferred from Sugar Hill School, Buford, Georgia.

On December 10, 1968, appropriate officials at the
following hotels were contacted and all advised that there
were no unclaimed safe deposit box contents:

ROYAL ORLEANS HOTEL

JUNG HOTEL

ROOSEVELT HOTEL

BOURBON ORLEANS HOTEL

SHERATON-DELTA HOTEL

MONTELEONE HOTEL

SHERATON CHARLES HOTEL

On January 6, 1969, Mrs. MARGAURITE BAHM, Personnel
Manager, Marsh-McClennan Insurance Company, 225 Baronne,
advised that BARBARA ANNE. PORTER ROSSI worked for her company
until November 18, 1968, at which time she obtained her pay
check, said she was sick, and would be under a doctor's care
until such time as she was able to return to work. Her Social
Security Number is 257-46-1088, and her date of birth is
January 25, 1937 Her father is Reverend PORTER, Buford,
Georgia, telephone. 945-7031. Her daughter is DEBORA ANN PORTER
ROSSI, date of birth March 17, 1956, father ANTHONY ROSSI.

On January 17, 1969, Mrs. BAHM advised she had just
received a letter from ROSSI, stating that he had sold a
Cadillac on which her company has the policy and requesting
that the refund be mailed to Mrs. CAROL POLIZZI, 9511 Shore
Road, Brooklyn, New York.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 7
-2-

NO 87-14835

Credit Bureau records made available by LANCE
GARCIA, January 17, 1969, reflect that ANTHONY ROSSI is
married to BARBARA and is employed at Rubensteins Clothing
Store.

On January 16, 1969, Lieutenant Commander, R. G.
NELSON, United States Coast Guard, Senior Inspector, made
available United States Coast Guard form CG 719B, which reflects
that OVIDIO LIMONE, also known as TONY ROSSI, applied for
seaman's papers and submitted a letter of intent to employ from
Waterman Steamship Company.

On January 17, 1969, LOUIS S. O'NEIL, Waterman
Steamship Company, advised his records reflect that his office
was requested to write a letter of intent by BOB LUNA of New
Orleans Shipping Company. O'NEIL stated he wrote the letter,
although there was no intention to employ ROSSI and that
such is a common practice in the industry.

On January 17, 1969, BOB LUNA, JR., 2609 Veronica
Drive, was interviewed at New Orleans Shipping Company, 436.
Camp Street. He advised that SALVADORE ESCOTO, who resides
at 1012 Esplanade, and is a merchant seaman he went to school
with, asked him to have a letter of intent written for a
friend of his, ANTHONY ROSSI. LUNA stated he went to Waterman
Steamship, who at his request wrote the letter. He delivered
the letter to ESCOTO in front of the Bun Restaurant. ESCOTO
was with another unknown male in sunglasses who upon receipt
of the letter, gave him a fifth of whiskey. A photograph of
ANTHONY ROSSI was exhibited, but LUNA was not able to identify
it. LUNA stated he does not know ROSSI personally and did it
as a favor for ESCOTO to promote business.

On January 17, 1969, Mrs. SALVADOR ESCOTO, 1012
Esplanade, advised her husband is presently in Japan, on
the "SS GREEN LAKE." She knows he took ROSSI to get seaman's
papers, but he is just an acquaintance and she has no
information as to his present whereabouts.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 8
3

NO 87-14835

On February 14, 1969, it was determined that ANTHONY
ROSSI's telephone number former at 119 South Claiborne, was
transferred to 8917 Apple Avenue.

Attempts to contact the resident at 8917 Apple
Avenue were negative on February 27, 1969, and March 5, 1969.

The following investigation was conducted by
SA DELBERT W. HAHN and SA ANDRE N. FORTIER, on March 25, 1969,
at New Orleans, Louisiana:

ANN OLE, 8917 Apple Avenue, advised she is the step-
daughter of NINO NOLTE. Her mother had ANTHONY ROSSI'S
telephone transferred to the OLE residence in order to avoid
the $25.00 deposit. She knows.ROSSI only as the business
partner in the Bus Restaurant with her step-father. She has
not seen ROSSI and has no knowledge of his present whereabouts.
She has nothing to do with her step-father and he has nothing
to do with her; they do not get along.

An attempt was made to contact NINO NOLTE at 8908
Nelson Avenue. ESSIE MAE GUILLOUT, 2909 Willow Street,
telephone number TW. 1-7914, was at the residence and advised
she is the maid. She does not know ROSSI and his photograph
was not familiar to her.

On April 11, 1969, SALVADORE ESCOTO advised he had
met ROSSI by frequenting the Bun Restaurant, which ROSSI
apparently owned.
was 1. On one occasion, ROSSI asked him to help him get
seaman's papers as he desired to go to sea. ESCOTO stated
he then asked his friend, BOB LUNA, to get a letter of intent
for ROSSI. The letter was obtained and ESCOTO gave it to
ROSSI at the Bun. ROSSI never told him that he had obtained
a job and never mentioned that he would be taking a trip.
ESCOTOS stated he knew nothing about ROSSI's personal life and
only knew him by contacting him at the Bun Restaurant when
heiwent there to eat or drink coffee.
"spevagren健
4
NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 9

NO 87-14835

AT DENVER, COLORADO
The following investigation was conducted by
SA LEROY W. GREEN:

Mr. BUEL O'LOUGHLIN, Identification Division, Denver,
Colorado Police Department, advised on December 17, 1968,
that he was unable to locate any record identifiable with
ANTHONY ROSSI, either under his true name or known aliases.

Mrs. GRACE NICHOLS, Master Files Section, Colorado
Department of Motor Vehicles, Denver, advised on January 3,
1969, that she was unable to locate any driver's license
for ANTHONY ROSSI, either under his true name or known
aliases.

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK
2
The New York Division advised by communication dated
February 18, 1969, that on January 30, 1969, Mr. and Mrs.
CHARLES POLIZZI, 5911 Shore Road, Brooklyn, New York, advised
SA PAUL E MARUM and SA MARIO SIMEONE, JR., that ANTHONY ROSSI
is the half brother of Mr.POLIZZI's late mother. Mr. POLIZZI
stated that the first time he ever saw ANTHONY ROSSI was four
years ago when ROSSI came to New York, to attend POLIZZI's
mother's funeral. POLIZZI stated that he never heard from
ROSSI again until the afternoon of January 20, 1969, when he
received a telephone call at his home from ROSSI who stated
that he was in New York, about to leave on a trip for Europe,
and would like to see him. Mr. POLIZZI stated that January 20
was the day of the Superbowl Football Game and he did not wish
to travel into Manhattan that afternoon and miss the ball
game. Mrs. CAROL POLIZZI advised that she had never met
ROSSI, but spoke to him on this occasion at which time she
recalled that ROSSI asked her where she was employed. Mrs.
POLIZZI stated that she informed him that she was employed
as a Secretary in Manhattan, and gave him the address where
she worked. ROSSI informed her that he would appreciate it
if she could do some typing for him the following day and
she agreed to do so.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 10
-5-

ΝΟ 87-14835

Mrs. POLIZZI stated that the following day, ROSSI
came to her office, asked her to Xerox a bill of sale and
dictated to her a letter to his insurance company in which
he requested a refund of his automobile insurance premium due
to the fact that he had sold his automobile.

Mr. POLIZZI stated that later on that day, he, his
wife, and ROSSI met at a coffee shop at Seventh Avenue,
and 54th Street, in Manhattan, and had dinner. At this time
ROSSI stated that he was planning to take a trip to Europe,
within the next few days, and requested that refund on his
automobile insurance be placed in the POLIZZI's bank account
until such time as he could contact them for it.

Mr. POLIZZI stated that after having had dinner with
ROSSI on that occasion, he has not seen or heard from him
since. Mr. and Mrs. POLIZZI were informed of subject's
fugitive status and the provisions of the Harboring Statute.
Mr. POLIZZI stated that he was in his third year at City
College of New York, studying architecture and works at two
jobs in order to attend school and stated that due to this
and in view of the fact that he has only seen ROSSI twice in
his entire life, he would not do anything to jeopardize his
future and would contact the FBI at once if he heard from
ROSSI in the future.

On January 23, 1969, AL KERR, Secretary and
Treasurer, Seaman's International Union, New York, advised
SA DAVID G. JENKINS that he could find no records in the
files of that union for ANTHONY ROSSI or OVIDIOLIMONI.

On February 4, 1969, EILEEN BROWN, Dispatcher's
Office, National Maritime Union, 36 7th Avenue, New York,
advised SA JENKINS that she could find no record in the
files of that union for ANTHONY ROSSI or OVIDIOLIMONI.

On April 3, 1969, the New York Division advised
that on March 12, 1969, Detective JOHN LOCKMAN, Recovered
Property Section, New York City Police Department, advised
that his department submitted an inquiry on VIN E6142738

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 11
-6-

ΝΟ 87-14835

as a result of a notice received from the Embassy Auto Sales,
1721 Broadway, New York, that this automobile had been
purchased.

On March 13, 1969, HARRY BAKER, Manager, Embassy
Auto Sales, advised that his records reflect that on January
13, 1969, he purchased a 1966 Cadillac El Dorado, VIN E6142738,
from ANTHONY and BARBARA A. ROSSI, 199 South Claiborne Avenue,
New Orleans, Louisiana.

A photograph of ANTHONY and BARBARA ROSSI was
displayed to BAKER and he identified the individuals in the
photograph as the persons from whom he purchased the Cadillac.
BAKER stated ROSSI, at the time of the sale, was accompanied
by a white male about thirty years of age, dark hair and
clean-shaven. BAKER was informed of ROSSI's fugitive status
and he agreed to notify the New York Office in the event he
was recontacted by ROSSI.

On March 19, 1969, CHARLES POLIZZI, 5911 Shore
Road, Brooklyn, New York, advised that he has not heard from
ROSSI since initially contacted by the FBI. He again indicated
his willingness to notify the FBI in the event that he obtained
information concerning ROSSI's whereabouts. POLIZZI stated
he could furnish no information as to the individual who
accompanied ROSSI at the time of the sale of his Cadillac
at Embassy Auto Sales.

It is noted that CHARLES POLIZZI wears a full beard.

AT BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

By communication dated January 28, 1969, the Boston
Division advised that on January 27, 1969, Mrs. MARIE MEROLA,
Secretary of State's Office, Providence, Rhode Island, advised
the records reflect that Crown Import Corporation, 6712
Broadway, Providence, Rhode Island, was incorporated on
January 18, 1968. The incorporators were JOAN SHEPLEY of 9
Almy Street, Providence, Rhode Island, GLORIA COLELLA, 42
Paolino Street, Johnston, Rhode Island, and SYDNEY KRAMAR
of 86 Farragut Avenue, Providence, Rhode Island. There were
no officers listed for this company.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 12
7-

NO 87-14835

On January 27, 1969, the records of the Providence,
Rhode Island Police Department, Identification Division,
reflected that ANGELO PALMISANO, date of birth December 9, 1915,
FBI Number 2477651, was arrested on March 22, 1937, for assault
and was sentenced to three months unappealed. Discontinued on"
January 16, 1946, with payment of cost. He was arrested on
April 14, 1939, for operating a motor vehicle without a license
and fined $5.00 and costs. He was further arrested on May 29,
1955, for gambling with dice on Sunday, fined $5.00 and costs.

On January 27, 1969, Captain JOHN EDDY, Providence,
Rhode Island Police Department, Detective Division, advised
that the Crown Import Corporation at 6712 Broadway, is
probably identical with the company which formerly occupied
667 Broadway, known as the Capital Manufacturing Company.
He stated this company went out of business approximately one
year ago and was formerly the company that dealt with "Gaffer"
watches, which are cheap, inexpensive Swiss-made watches,
bearing names similar to those of well-known watches.

He stated in one instance, watches were sold which
bore the name Homilton and were confused by unknowing
individuals with Hamilton watches.

He stated this company was never known to deal in
any stolen jewelry or other type of merchandise and dealt
primarily with the "Gaffer" watches.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 13
8

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-04)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date
DAVID LYNN MITCHELL was interviewed at the Sierra
Conservation Center, Jamestown, California. MITCHELL was
warned of his rights by Special Agent DONALD H. MOE and
he waived them, as shown on an executed warning and waiver
form. MITCHELL furnished signed statement as follows:

February 26, 1969
Sierra Conservation Center
Jamestown, California

"I, DAVID LYNN MITCHELL, furnish the follow-
ing voluntary statement to DONALD H. MOE and SANTO
O. TRONAS, who have identified themselves to me as
Special Agents with the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion. Mr. Moe has told me that this inquiry relates
to the identification of an individual or individuals
to whom jewelry was sold. This jewelry had previously
been taken by me from the house of ADDIE KATHERINE
EARLE. Mr. Moe exhibited five photographs of five
different persons to me. From this group of photo-
graphs, I selected a photograph which I identified
as a photograph of an individual known to me as
FRANK WALLS. This is the person to whom I sold
an emerald ring while in the office of the Canal
Jewelry and Loan Company in New Orleans, Louisiana.

"This office was located at the rear of
the Canal Jewelry and Loan Company and could not
be viewed from the store, itself. The office con-
tained a large, double doored safe, two or three chairs, to gain entrance to the office,
requiring going up two or three stairs, in the rear
of the store."

On 2/26/69 at Jamestown, California File# 10 87-174
by SANTO O. TRONAS/110 Date dictated 3/6/69
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;
it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 14
9

SC 87-174

he noticed the following described employees in the store.

1. A young man who worked behind the "wire
cage" where merchandise was pawned, six feet,
light colored hair, mid-20's

2. A woman in her mid-40's with grayish black
hair who worked behind the cashier's desk.

3. A salesman, very short, about five feet
five inches with a mustache.

He could furnish no additional descriptive data
concerning the above individuals advising that he only saw
them in the store and did not talk to them.

MITCHELL stated that the safe in which the jewelry
was placed by WALLS was a large, double doored safe located
in the office of Canal Jewelry and Loan. He advised that
the office was located at the rear of the store; that upon
entering the store, you walk straight back, up two or three
stairs and turn right to enter the office.

MITCHELL stated that WALLS went with his mother,
BETTY MITCHELL, in about 1951 or 1952, when MITCHELL was
six or seven years of age. MITCHELL said that at that
time, he and his mother were living in an apartment in
Galveston, Texas, adjacent to a beauty parlor. The owner-
operator of the beauty parlor, name not recalled, resided
in an upstairs apartment; she was their landlady. This
apartment and beauty parlor is still in existence and as
of about one year ago, was still owned and operated by the
same woman. It is located directly North, and adjacent to
a Sears Roebuck & Company parking lot. The parking lot is

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 15
10

SC 87-174

located directly East, and adjacent to the Sears Roebuck &
Company store. The Beauty Shop operator-landlady was a
close friend of the mother of MITCHELL and was acquainted
with WALLS.

MITCHELL could furnish no information about the
name or location of the club allegedly operated by WALLS
in Galveston at that time.

MITCHELL stated he is certain that the name used
by WALLS in Galveston was FRANK WALLS since he recognized
this name when he saw WALLS in New Orleans; thereafter, he
asked WALLS if he was the same WALLS that had gone with
his mother and WALLS affirmed that he was.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 16
11

"I have identified the photograph of CARLOS
MARCELLO by writing on the reverse of the photograph:

"This is a photo of CARLOS MARCELLO" and
signing my name.

"I have read the above two page statement,
it is true and correct."

WITNESS: DONALD H. MOE, "DAVID L. MITCHELL
2/26/69"
Jamestown, Calif.
Special Agent, FBI, 2/29/62,
SANTO O. TRONAS,
Special Agent, FBI, 2/20/12.

The following described photographs were exhibited
to DAVID LYNN MITCHELL:
1. CARLOS MARCELLO

2. CHARLES DAVID STUTZMAN, Federal Bureau of
Investigation Number 299-459-5.

3. HOWARD HARVIN STOVALL, Federal Bureau of
Investigation Number 206-933-C.

4. LULUS O. SAMUELS, Federal Bureau of
Investigation Number 4-070-093.

5. DELBERT DEAW DORUM, Federal Bureau of
Investigation Number 215-876-A.

NW 78318
Docld:34489342 Page 18
13

TREASURY DEPARTMENT
U. S. COAST GUARD
CG-719B (Rev. 11-62)
TO: COMMANDANT (MVP-1)

Poun Approved, Budget Bureau Number 18-R 355.1
SEAN'S CERTIFICATE APPLICATIO
€
ORIGINAL
CHECK ONE:
CONTINUOUS DISCHARGE BOOK
SUPPLEMENTAL
BOOK, NO.
M. M. D. NO.
U.S. MERCHANT MARINER'S DOCUMENT
DATE
12 June 1968
TYPE OF CERTIFICATE (Check one):
PORT OF
ENDORSED AS
DATE NATURALIZED
NAME OF APPLICANT PRINT (Last, first and middle)
LINONE, Ovidio (alias Rossi, Anthony)
Louisiana,
ADDRESS OF APPLICANT
119 So. Claiborne St., Apt. 874, No:
70112 | SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
rland,
and, 230-34-4963
PLACE OF BIRTH (City, state and country)
New York, New York
DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month and year)
16 August 1916
HEIGHT
5'07
WEIGHT
170
NAME OF NEXT OF KIN
Barbara Ann Rossi
ADDRESS OF NEXT OF KIN
Same as above.
COMPLEXION
ruddy
CITIZENSHIP OR NATIONALITY RECORD
COURT OF NATURALIZATION
IF NATURALIZED THROUGH FATHER, STATE HIS NAME
CITY
COLOR OF HAIR
COLOR OF EYES
Blk. Grey
Brown
RELATIONSHIP
STATE
PROOF OF U.S. CITIZENSHIP (Describe)
New York birth cert。 40022 Filed: 8-25-16。
IF NOT NATURALIZED IS DECLARATION OF INTENTION FILED? (If so, state place, date and file number of intention papers)
IF ALIEN, DESCRIBE PROOF OF NATIONALITY
IF RESIDENT ALIEN, STATE PROOF PRESENTED AND REGISTRATION NO.
L
NARCOTIC RECORD (If any)
Have you ever been convicted of violation of the narcotic drug laws of the United States, the District of Columbia, or
any State or Territory of the United States? ☐ No ☐ Yes. If "Yes," state place, date, and particulars of each conviction.
Have you ever used or been addicted to the use of narcotics? ☐ No ☐ Yes. If Yes," state place, date, and
