JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10211
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1142

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 12/05/66
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : LST, TRA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/14/95
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: INC LHM

Date : 04/14/95
Page : 1

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78318
Docld:34489579 Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date: 12-5-66

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

[for]

TO: Director, FBI (92-2781)
FROM: Legat, Paris (92-58) (Ruc)
SUBJECT: SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. AR
Re Paris cable 12-5-66.

Enclosed are 5 copies of an LHM captioned and dated as above.

In the event any additional information is received regarding the subjects from either the Directorate General of Security (DGS), Madrid, or the Portuguese International and State Security Police (PIDE), Lisbon, in the future, the Bureau and Miami will be immediately advised.

ENCLOSURE

5 - Bureau (Enc. 5)
(1 - Liaison Section
1 - Miami, for info.)
1 Paris
VVK:HD
(6)

NW 78318
Docld:34489579 Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.

[For]

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535
December 5, 1966

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

On November 30, 1966, JOSE NIETO GOMEZ, Dirección
General de Seguridad (Directorate General of Security),
Spanish National Police, Madrid, Spain, advised that SANTO
TRAFFICANTE, JR., arrived at Barajas Airport, Madrid, Spain,
aboard Aeronaves de Mexico flight 450 on November 23, 1966.
He remained in Madrid until November 28, 1966, when he
departed en route Lisbon, Portugal.

While in Madrid, he was in frequent contact with
a Cuban attorney by the name of RAFAEL GARCIA BANGO, Calle
Méjico #9, Madrid. According to NIETO, the principal
purpose of TRAFFICANTE's visit to Spain was to contact
GARCIA BANGO regarding the possible purchase of property
in Madrid. While in Madrid, TRAFFICANTE, accompanied by
GARCIA BANGO and at times with GARCIA BANGO's wife and
daughter, frequented numerous restaurants, shows, and night
clubs.

On December 2, 1966, Inspector JOSE MANUEL DA CUNHA
PASSO of the Portuguese International and State Security
Police (PIDE), Lisbon, Portugal, advised that SANTO TRAFFI-
CANTE, JR., arrived at the Lisbon Airport, Lisbon, Portugal,
on November 28, 1966, and that he departed on the same date
without having actually left the Lisbon Airport.

This document contains neither
recommendations nor conclusions of
the FBI. It is the property of
the FBI and is loaned to your agency;
it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

ENCLOSURE

NW 78318
Docld:34489579 Page 3
