AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10171
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-8TH NR 118

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Agency Information
Date: 6/8/2015

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WANNALL, W. R.
TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.
TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

DATE: 09/25/1964
'PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: SPANISH VESSEL, SIERRA ARANZAZU, SUSP, SECRET
ORGANIZATION OF CONTINENTAL ACTION, MRR, LIAISON
WITH DOS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/22/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA
COMMENTS:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TOP SECRET

Memorandum

W. C. Sullivan
W. R. Wannall

copies made:
for review at FBIHQ by

September 25, 1964

1 - Mr. Belmont
1 - Miss Holmes
1 - Mr. Evans
1 - Mr. Sullivan
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Nasca

ATTACK ON SPANISH VESSEL "SIERRA
ARANZAZU," 9/13/64
NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Bir Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario
Bureau Source Six (Communications Intelligence, classified "Top
Secret") has revealed that Spanish Ambassador to U.S. Merry del Val on
9/23/64 reported to his Foreign Ministry that he had visited General
Marshall Carter, Deputy Director of Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),
the previous day and next intended to visit the Director of the FBI. CIA
has provided us a memorandum showing that on 9/22/64 the Ambassador met
with General Carter who referred to assurances given by Secretary of State
Dean Rusk that the U.S. was not involved in the sinking of captioned
vessel.
• Per NSA letter 2/27/98. Milk

Source Six revealed that the Ambassador had a conference with
State Department officials, including Mr. John Crimmins, who is the
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, on 9/20/64. Following the conference the
Ambassador advised the Spanish Foreign Ministry that he was told by a
State Department official that theinvestigation of the sinking of captioned
Spanish vessel was being carried out principally by the FBI in Miami and
Puerto Rico and that in this connection the State Department official had
an interview with Director of the FBI. In this connection, it may be
noted that Bureau representatives met with Crimmins in his office at
State Department regarding this matter on the morning of 9/20/64 (memo-
randum dated 9/20/64 submitted) and the Ambassador was probably told that
State Department official had met with one of the Director's representa-
tives and not the Director himself. We have no information indicating
the Director has met with State Department official regarding this matter

Our memoranda in captioned matter dated 9/20 and 22/64 show that
at request of Assistant Attorney General Yeagley we are investigating
activities of an anti-Castro organization known as Secret Organization of
Continental Action (OSAC). This investigation was started last July.
Following the sinking of captioned vessel on 9/13/64, the OSAC claimed it
was responsible for the sinking and, thus, we have been investigating
this incident since that time. Crimmins on 9/20/64 advised us the
Spanish Government was most upset over the attack on its vessel and that
the U.S. Government agreed to cooperate in an investigation the Spaniards
are conducting. He asked if Bureau would object to his making available
our investigative results to Spanish officials and we told him that we
interposed no objection to State Department's doing so at its discretion

WRW:ams OCT 15 1964

Memorandum for Mr. Sullivan
Re: ATTACK ON SPANISH VESSEL "SIERRA
ARANZAZU," 9/13/64

TOP SECRET

We were subsequently advised by CIA on a very highly confidential
basis (as set out in our 9/22/64 memorandum) that that Agency possessed
information which very definitely indicated that an exile group which is
receiving U.S. backing, known as Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria
(MRR), was responsible for this attack. An error was made in that the
persons carrying out the attack thought they were firing upon a Cuban
vessel. Three Spaniards aboard the Spanish ship were killed as result of
the attack. CIA deals with MRR based upon policy established by a Special
Group, including representatives from CIA, State Department, Defense,
and the White House. Former Attorney General Kennedy also served as a
member of the group. CIA claimed it did not direct any of the MRR opera-
tions and the planned attack which resulted in sinking of the Spanish
vessel was solely an operation engineered by MRR. Details regarding CIA'S
support of this group, of course, are unknown to Spanish authorities,
although State Department is fully aware of complete details regarding this
Incident.

Our investigation in this matter is being pursued on an expedite
and special basis and should be completed within about one week's time
barring unforseen developments. Results are being made available as
received to Crimmins at State Department as well as to Internal Security
Division of Department. In the latter connection, it should be noted if
persons involved in the sinking of captioned vessel undertook any acts
in U.S. in support thereof, they might be in violation of the neutrality
statutes or the conspiracy provisions relating to neutrality violations.
We will request an opinion from Internal Security Division in this regard
when our investigation is completed.

ACTION:

For the Director's information in the event he receives a
request from Spanish Ambassador Merry del Val for an appointment. The
Director may wish to consider taking the position that it would not be
proper for him to see and talk to the Spanish Ambassador because the
subject matter falls in the province of the State Department

TOP SECRET
