JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 04/18/95
Page : 1

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10209
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1140

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : LEG, PA
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 12/05/66
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : LST, TRA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/14/95
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318
Docld:34489578 Page 1
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

4-3 (Rev. 1-27-66)

DECODED COPY

☐ AIRGRAM XXX CABLEGRAM ☐ RADIO ☐ TELETYPE

STATE 07

DEFERRED 12-5-66

TO DIRECTOR (92-2781)

FROM LEGAT PARIS NO. 537

0
SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. AR.

Tolson
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

REBU TELEPHONE CALL NOVEMBER 22 LAST.

SPANISH POLICE ADVISE SUBJECT ARRIVED MADRID NOVEMBER 23
AND DEPARTED NOVEMBER 28 LAST PER SCHEDULE. THEY ADVISE PRINCIPAL
PURPOSE OF TRIP APPEARED TO BE CONTACT WITH CUBAN ATTORNEY
RAFAEL GARCIA BANGO OF MADRID REGARDING POSSIBLE PURCHASE OF
PROPERTY IN MADRID.

PORTUGUESE POLICE ADVISE SUBJECT TRANSITED LISBON WITHOUT
LEAVING AIRPORT.

GARCIA MENTIONED MIAMI MEMORANDUM AUGUST 5 LAST, CAPTIONED
"JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE), INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA;
NEUTRALITY MATTERS." 105-114543-2731-1140
REPORT FOLLOWS. REC-5972

RECEIVED: 10:29 AM JER
3RD CC: MR. BRENNAN
3 DEC 9 1966

ICC to Miemi (info)
12/9/66

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 78318
Docld:34489578 Page 2
