AGENCY : FBI
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 08/10/98
Page : 1

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10203-10494
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-217

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE : 09/26/61
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS : GM, SMO, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/98
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 78318
Docld:34489464 Page 1

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
SEP 26 1961
TELETYPE
Mr. Tolson
Mr. Belmont
Mr. Mohr.
Mr. Callahan.
Mr. Conrad
Mr. DeLoac
Mr. Evans
Mr. Malone.
Mr. Rosen.
Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Tavel
Mr. Trotter.
Tele. Room.
Mr. Ingram.
Miss Gandy.

URGENT 9-26-61 8-33 PM TGH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-2914/ /92-2918/
FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH /92-236/ /92-228/
GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. ON
EVENING OF SEPT. TWENTY FIVE LAST, A PCI ADVISED THAT GAMBLING OF
ALL TYPES HAS BEEN SUPPRESSED IN NEW KENSINGTON , PA., TO A POINT
BEYOND ANYTHING IN HIS RECOLLECTION FOR LAST TWENTY FIVE YEARS.
NUMBERS, SPORTS BETS AND HORSE BETS ARE DOWN TO ABOUT TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE NORMAL OF ONE MONTH AGO AND CARD, CRAPS AND BARBOUT
GAMES ARE EXTINCT. MANY CAMBLERS IN NEW KENSINGTON FEAR THEY WILL
NOT BE EMPLOYED FOR A LONG TIME AND ALSO FEAR, SINCE THEY ARE NOW
AWARE OF THE EXTENSIVE IRS INVESTIGATION THAT THEY MAY BE
INDICTED FEDERALLY. PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C ADVISES THAT ON SEPT.
TWENTY FIVE LAST, WILLIE SAMS, THE MANNARINO QUOTE BRAINS END QUOTE IN
GAMBLING OPERATIONS, CONSULTED WITH AN ATTORNEY IN A ROOM IN THE CARLTON
HOUSE, PITTSBURGH, DUE TO SAMS- BELIEF THAT THE IRS IS INVESTIGATING
REC- 26 72-2914-27
HIM AND MAY MAKE A SUCCESSFUL CASE AGAINST HIM. BOTH
SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.
CORR-LAST LINE WRD-1-SHD-BE SUBJECTS
END AND ACK PLS
WA 8-37 PM OK FBI WA RAC
TU DISCO CED
38 SEP 28 1961

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 72-22718-

NW 78318
Docld:34489464 Page 2
