File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

552 THRU 567

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88608 Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA FPMR (4) CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Cregar

DATE: 8/1/75
1 - Personnel File -
Fred J. Cassidy
1 - Personnel File -
Richard W. Held
1 - Mr. Hotis
1 - Mr. Daly

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Wintell.
Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

Loch Johnson, Staff Member, Senate Select Committee,
requested that SA Fred J. Cassidy be made available for an in-
terview concerning his knowledge of the "Houston Plan." Johnson
indicated that this would be a Staff interview. SA Cassidy is
currently on annual leave and Johnson was advised of this. He
requested that he be notified when Cassidy would be available
for interview.

Staff Member Lester B. Seidel requested that Richard W.
Held be made available for Staff interview. He indicated that
this particular interview would be with regards to COINTELPRO
against the Black Panther Party and the Bureau's investigation
of the Black Panther Party. Seidel is currently conducting in-
terviews on the West Coast and the details concerning the time
of the interview have not been established.

RECOMMENDATIONS: REC-56
62-116395-567

EX-101
(1) That SAs Held and Cassidy be released from 96 27 1975
existing employment agreement for purposes of this Senate
Select Committee interview. Botn IN INTゃんん DI

(2) That an Intelligence Division representative
be made available to accompany SAs Cassidy and Held for con-
sultation during interview when final details are arranged.
(The Intelligence Division Agent will not be present during
the interview but merely available for consultation..)

PVD:laddad
(9)
MDR-16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/19/00 BY SP2 ALM/EHL

8 406 2 8 1975

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 2

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

AUG 2 0 1975

TO: John Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination

SUBJECT: Three Specific Requests from SSC as They
Relate to Item 4 of the August 13, 1975,
Letter from Elliff

Reference is made to a letter dated August 13, 1975, from
John Elliff of the Senate Select Committee to me, a copy of which
was sent to you earlier and attached to my memorandum dated
August 15, 1975.

On August 20, 1975, Mike Epstein of the SSC staff orally
requested delivery of three specific documents, access to which
were embraced generally by Item 4 of the August 13, letter. These
documents are:

Delivered to (1) A June 7, 1961, memorandum from Courtney Evans to
Bureau Agent Belmont
SHAHEEN (2) A routing or "buck slip" dated June 3, 1961, from
8/21/75
By P. V. Daly
Ewf

the Attorney General to Evans bearing the notation
"pursue vigorously".

(3) A May 22, 1961, memorandum from Director Hoover to the
Attorney General EX-101

REC-56 62-116395-566

Please arrange for the delivery of these documents to me as
soon as possible. Indeed, I should appreciate their receipt by this
Office by tomorrow, August 21, 1975. If such information will opery-1975
mit you to expedite compliance with this priority request, Bureau
Agent Cassidy knows of these documents and the SSC's special interest
in them.

MDB-16
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/19/08 SP2 ALM CHC

File 62-116395
5-fich

NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 3

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum TOP SECRET

TO : Mr. W. R. Wannall

FROM : S. S. Mignosassm

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

DATE: 8/18/75
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. S. S. Mignosa
1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff
1 - Mr. C. H. McCarthy

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Legal Coun
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
REALIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

Reference is made to memorandum dated 7/24/75,
captioned as above, which requested review, assessment and
recommendations pertaining to the contents of pages extracted
from a 693-page CIA document in order to fully identify the
subject matter and to assess whether FBI operations were
compromised.

Section CI-3 conducted the following review and
makes the assessment pertinent thereto:

RE: Page 00026, "Siesta" and pages 00059-61, captioned
"Subject: General: Office of Security Survey." (5)

This matter concerns Orlando Nunez-Toro
(Bufile 105-141367), a United States citizen of Cuban
extraction, who was suspected by CIA of attempting to
recruit for intelligence purposes CIA personnel, one
Miss Deborah Fitzgerald. By letter dated 8/4/70, the
first communication to the FBI by CIA relating to Toro-
Nunez and Fitzgerald, the FBI was requested to advise
whether it interposed any objections to CIA investigative
action CIA deemed necessary to explore questions raised
by the association of Nunez Toro and Fitzgerald with CIA
employees.(5)
EX-101 REC-56

In response to that inquiry, FBIHQ advised CIA
by letter dated 8/14/70, that the FBI interposed no objection
to CIA investigation for such a purpose. At the same time,
CIA was specifically requested to provide the FBI with any
information developed relating to FBI internal security
responsibilities.(5)

62-116395
CHM:cla cár
(6)
IMDR 16
CLASSIFIED BY SPZ ALM JEHL
DEC SSIFY ON: 25X
TOP SECRET

Classified by 6098 CHM
BA
9 AUG 27 1975
CONTINUED - OVER

5-万m
Exempt from COS, Categories 2 and 3
Date of Declassification Indefinite

8.4 AUG 2.8.1975 ROUTE IN ENVELOPE
NW 88608 DocId:32989633 Page 4

TOP SECRET

Memo to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

CIA communicated with FBIHQ by letters dated
7/6/71 and 2/24/72, concerning the Nunez-Toro and
Deborah Fitzgerald matter, requesting each time records
review of Bureau files of numerous individuals of interest
to CIA. On each occasion CIA was provided with the results
of such checks. However, by letter dated 3/2/72, FBIHQ
responded to CIA letter dated 2/24/72, by stating, "We have
made a study of our file concerning this matter (Nunez-Toro
and Fitzgerald) and a detailed review of the referenced
material. At the present time, it appears the paramount
concern is whether Nunez and Deborah Jane Fitzgerald are
obtaining intelligence information concerning your Agency,
and you have established a network of sources to cover that
aspect. As you indicate, there is no specific evidence
that Nunez or Fitzgerald has any connection with a hostile
intelligence service or a foreign government. We, therefore,
will defer to your Agency until completion of your investigation
or the development of information showing they are engaged
in subversive activities within our primary jurisdiction."
(5)

The FBI did not conduct an internal security-type
investigation regarding the relationship of Nunez-Toro and
Fitzgerald. The FBI did conduct an internal security-type
investigation of Nunez-Toro in 1965 as a result of his
reported disaffection for the United States while living
abroad. We reopened that investigation in 1969 when it was
reported that Nunez-Toro communicated with the Cuban Embassy,
Ottawa, Canada. That investigation was closed when it was
established his family desired to return to Cuba and his
contact was in that regard.7(5)
revealed
A review of FBIHQ files contain no information
that any FBI employee was knowledgeable, before or after
the fact, of a surreptitious entry on the part of CIA
personnel, into the premises of Nunez-Toro and Deborah
Fitzgerald. That surreptitious entry by CIA personnel into
the premises of Nunez-Toro and Fitzgerald located in
Fairfax, Virginia, received considerable publicity recently,
when it was alleged that Fairfax police assisted the CIA
during the entry. (5)

ASSESSMENT:

No compromise of an on-going FBI operation.

TOP SECRET
CONTINUED OVER
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 5
- 2-

TOP SECRET

Memo to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

RE: Page 00026, "Paragon." (s)

✓ This matter pertains to an alleged plot in
1972-73 to assassinate former Vice President Spiro Agnew
and the Director of CIA by using two Latin American
revolutionaries. A CIA informant abroad reported that
one Elizabeth Boynton Millard, a New York City resident
known for her Communist associations and her involvement
with Latin-American revolutionaries, was scheduled "to
finger" top United States Officials for assassination.
The plot was allegedly conceived some time prior to 8/19/72,
in Chile and was to be carried out sometime between 10/25/72
through 11/7/72. The FBI investigated this plot thoroughly (5)
and closed its investigation on 2/2/73, when it was
concluded that none of the individuals reportedly involved
had any connection with such activity.

ASSESSMENT:

No compromise of an on-going FBI operation.

RE: Page 00282, "28 October 1970."
(5)

During October, 1970, United States Government
officials, including Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, who was then
assigned to The White House, received cryptograms indicating
bombings would occur in various cities of the United States
on 11/29/70. The Soviet Military Attache, Washington, D. C.,
received a similar cryptogram reporting United States
Chinese activities against Russia. The sender of the
cryptograms was identified and during our investigation
other government agencies, including CIA, were requested
to furnish the original cryptograms for fingerprint examination.

ASSESSMENT:

No compromise.

OP SECRET
CONTINUED OVER
3
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 6

TOP SECRET

Memo to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

RE: Pages 00290, 00292, 00295, 00310.

The contents of these pages concern the Daniel
Ellsberg matter, all of which is of a public nature.

ASSESSMENT:

No compromise.

RE: Pages 00334, 00361–363, 00368, 00371, 00373, 00376-379,
00384, 00385, 00468-470 and 00615.

The contents of these pages concern the "Chilean
Project." On 4/16/71, CIA proposed technical penetration
of the Chilean Embassy, Washington, D. C., to collect foreign
intelligence data and to compromise classified encrypted
diplomatic traffic. CIA proposed that access be made
through one of their covert contacts. The FBI declined.
The Attorney General then requested FBI cooperation. On
5/13/71, a memorandum was sent to the Department of State
for approval of that operation and such approval was obtained
on 5/17/71. On 7/14/71, the Attorney General authorized
activation of the microphone installation at the Chilean
Embassy until 10/8/71. CIA requested continuation as the
expiration date approached and on 10/15/71, the Attorney
General authorized such continuation. The technical
surveillance was discontinued as noted in memorandum to
the Attorney General and CIA dated 2/7/72. The surveillance
was reactivated on 12/27/72, and was eventually discontinued
on 2/22/73.(S)

On 6/19/73, the Watergate Special Prosecution Force
requested FBI investigation of the alleged burglary of the
Chilean Embassy, Washington, D. C., on or about 5/13/72.
The Metropolitan Police Department, Washington, D. C.,
conducted an investigation of that incident and submitted
a complete report to the Office of the United States Attorney.
That report was in the possession of the Watergate Special
Prosecution Force and on 10/30/73, that Force advised the
FBI that no additional investigation was desired. There
is no connection between the "Chilean Project" and the
alleged burglary of the Chilean Embassy on or about 5/13/72.(5)

NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 7
TOP SECRET
4
CONTINUED OVER

TOP SECRET

Memo to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

ASSESSMENT:

The above information refers to our special
coverage of the Chilean Embassy which was discontinued
in February, 1973, and has not been operational since that
time. Possession of such information by the Senate Committee 15
will not interfere with any on-going FBI investigation.
All activities engaged in by the FBI in connection with
this project were conducted on the instruction of Attorney
General Mitchell.
(5)

RE: Page 00361, captioned "Memorandum for: Executive Secretary,
CIA Management Committee.

In addition to the "Chilean Project," the contents
of this page also refer to FBI technical coverage of diplomatic
establishments of Israel. It is pointed out that Watergate
Defendant James McCord telephoned the Embassy of Israel,
Washington, D. C., after his arrest, believing that his
conversation would be overheard and he would be able to
challenge tainted evidence. The date of his telephone call
to the Embassy of Israel is not known but it is pointed out
that our technical coverage of the Embassy of Israel was
discontinued on 10/16/72, at the specific request of Secretary
of State William Rogers. This matter is also public knowledge.

ASSESSMENT:

No compromise of FBI operations.

RE: Pages 00457 and 00458, concerning Item Number 3.

According to CIA, this matter involved surreptitious
entries by CIA into a French diplomatic establishment,
Washington, D. C., during the early 1960's. As is evident
from reading Item number 3, there is no FBI involvement in
or knowledge of such activities by CIA.
(5)
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 8
TOP SECRET
-
5
CONTINUED OVER

TOP SECRET

Memo to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

It is pointed out that Philippe Thyraud De Vosjoli
(Bufile 64-33606) a former attache of the French Embassy,
Washington, D. C., and a former French Intelligence officer,
cooperated with CIA and provided CIA with information in
1963 that French intelligence planned to engage in intelligence
activities in the United States. This information was
thereafter transmitted to the FBI. It is believed that
De Vosjoli is identical with either Iden-122 or Iden-124
mentioned in Item number 3.
3.(5)

ASSESSMENT:

There is no compromise of an on-going FBI operation.

RE: Pages 00591-00593, captioned) "MHCHAOS Program." "(5)

This CIA program involved the clandestine
collection abroad of information relating to foreign
efforts to support and influence domestic United States
extremism. The foreign-oriented activity in the
United States was of two types; first, selected FBI
informants who traveled abroad in connection with their
extremist activity and their resultant debriefing by CIA
with the cooperation of the FBI. Second, FBI sources with
existing extremist credentials who were offered to CIA
for dispatching abroad to collect information responsive
to CIA requirements. (s)

There has been no compromise of such FBI informants
and sources.

ASSESSMENT:

ACTION:

No compromise of any on-going FBI operation.

For information and referral to Senstudy Group.

TOP SECRET
6
CHM
TJMK?
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 9

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530
FBI

AUG 21 1975

TO: John Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination

SUBJECT:C Senate Select Committee Request

Attached is a letter dated August 19, 1975, from the Senate
Select Committee requesting the names and addresses of various for-
mer and present Agents of the Bureau. Please arrange for compli-
ance with this request as soon as possible.

The Department has determined that SSC staff interviews with
these present and former agents would not interfere with any current
criminal investigation by the Department and will so advise the
Select Committee when the requested information is transmitted.

ENCLOSURE
MDR-14
REC-56
EX-101
62-116372564

9AUG 27 1975
ALM/EHC
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE10/19/005Y

Treat as Original
62-116395

AUG 2 8 1975
NW 88608_Dold:32989633 Page 10

AUG 21 1975

TO: John Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Request

Attached is a letter dated August 19, 1975, from the Senate
Select Committee requesting the names and addresses of various for-
mer and present Agents of the Bureau. Please arrange for compli-
ance with this request as soon as possible.

The Department has determined that SSC staff interviews with
these present and former agents would not interfere with any current
criminal investigation by the Department and will so advise the
Select Committee when the requested information is transmitted.

NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 11
MDR-16
10/19/00 SP2 ALM/EIC

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN
JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN
PHILIP A. HART, MICH.
WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN:
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.
ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.
GARY HART, COLO.
HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.
BARRY GOLDIVATER, ARIZ.
CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.
RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, Γ'Α.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL
CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL
United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 94TH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 19, 1975

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq.
Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination
Office of the Deputy Attorney General
U. S. Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mike:
MDR-16
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE10/19/0P2ALM/EHL

The Select Committee, as you know, is investi-
gating the FBI's relationship to mail opening activities.
The Committee staff desires to interview all present or
former Special Agents of the FBI who were responsible for
supervising the communications between the FBI and the CIA
with regard to this activity. Therefore, I am hereby
requesting the pamns ard present assignment and/or where-
abouts of these Special Agents. Furthermore, please pro-
vide the current addresses and office assignments of all
Special Agents with the surname "McDougal" who were assign-
ed to the New York City area in 1971, and the names and
current addresses of all SACs and ASACs for years 1959 to
1966 in the following field offices: New. York, Boston,
Washington, Detroit, Seattle, Los Angeles, Miami, and San
Francisco.

In addition, please advise me as to whether Com-
mittee staff interviews of these Special Agents would
interfere with the current criminal investigation into
these matters by the Justice Department. This request is
pursuant to the special procedure to which we have agreed.

RECEIVED
12123 456
AUG 19/5
17

Sincerely,
Elep
John T. Elliff
Director
Domestic Intelligence Task Force

68
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 12
62-116375-564
ENCLOSURE

NRØ10 AT CODE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
AU211975
TELETYPE

9:45 PM URGENT AUGUST 21, 1975 SSP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

FROM: ATLANTA (62-2854)

SENSTUDY 75

Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Adm.
Dep.-A D-Inv...
Asst. I.
Admi.
Compt
Ext. Affairs
Filep
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspectioma
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

RE BUTEL TO ATLANTA, AUGUST 14, 1975, AND ATLANTA TEL TO BUREAU,
AUGUST 15, 1975.

FORMER SA EDWARD F. GAMBER, MARIETTA, GEORGIA, ADVISED THIS DATE
HE HAS BEEN CONTACTED BY PAUL WALLACH, SSC STAFF MEMBER, WHO HAS
ARRANGED AN INTERVIEW WITH GAMBER IN THE ATLANTA AREA AT TEN A.Μ.,
SEPTEMBER 2, 1975. SA GAMBER INTENDS TO CONTACT THE OFFICE OF LEGAL
COUNSEL BY COLLECT CALL AUGUST 22, 1975.

END
SJP FBIHQ CLR

PERSONNEL RECORDS UNIT
COPY RETAINED ITE
MDR-16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLA DYSP2ALM/EHC
DATE

62-116395563
9 AUG 27 1975

84-AUG-2-1975ml
NW.88608 Docld:32989633 Page 13

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
SA FPAIR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GONERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : J. B. Adams

FROM Legal Couns

ON MDR-16
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 1975

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Cregar - Enc.

DATE:7/29/75
1 - Mr. Hotis - Enc.
1 - Mr. Daly - Enc.

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
En cAsst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Dattitude
Plan & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED ALMIC 20

On 7/25/75 at the request of Special
Intelligence Coordinator Michael Shaheen in the Department,
a meeting was held between representatives of the FBI (SAS
Paul B Daly and John Thomas), representatives of the Senate
Select Committee (John T. Elliff, Task Force head of the Domestic
Task Force, Mark Gitenstein) and Michael Shaheen of the Department.
At this meeting Mr. Shaheen advised that the proposed procedures
concerning the handlings of requests for documents by the Senate
Select Committee had been approved by the Attorney General and in
the Senate Select Committee. (A copy is attached.)

Shaheen and Elliff indicated the purpose in meeting on
the 25th along with an anticipated meeting on Monday, 7/28/75, was
to assist the SSC in the planning of a superseding request in
accordance with the newly established procedures concerning
document requests. Both Shaheen and Elliff expressed concern at
this time that the schedules set forth in the new agreement was
such that in many instances the Bureau would not be able to
respond in time to meet the deadlines. Additionally, Shaheen
expressed concern that the provisions require that the Attorney
General adjudicate any question as to the necessity of furnishing
a document to the Committee and to make such a decision within 24
hours would be very burdensome.

Messrs. Elliff and Shaheen were advised by SA Daly that
this would be true, pointing out that in many instances files are
not readily available because of FOIA requests, needs of the
Bureau's ongoing investigations and law suits in which it was
necessary to view particular files. It was also pointed out that
many of the requests of the Senate Select Committee necessitate
the review of a number of files and/or numerous. volumes of a
particular file all of which are not necessarily available
immediately. Mr. Shaheen advised that it was the Attorney
General's desire that Senate Select Committee requests take
precedence over all other matters including the Freedom of In-
formation. It was pointed out to Mr. Shaheen that our responses
to Freedom of Information Act are under deadline by law and; if
Enclosure ST110 RE-41-
162-116395-5-16
CONTINUED 25 10VER

PVD:1ad1975
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
NW 88608-DocId:32989633 Page 14

Legal Counsel to J. B. Adams Memorandum
RE: SENSTUDY 1975

this were to be the Attorney General's feelings, he should
advise this Bureau in writing so that we would be in a
position to use this statement of policy should this
question arise during litigation. It was pointed out that
in many areas of possible abuse set forth by the Senate
Select Committee we have pending FOIA requests and/or
litigation which require the availability of those files
for responses.

Elliff indicated that it was the Committee's desire
in their forthcoming superseding request to request material
that had been previously furnished the Committee with the under-
standing that there would be less excisions made in compliance
with the new agreement. He inquired as to whether the Bureau
could advise him as to what material previously furnished was
readily retrievable and could be furnished in accordance with
a new request. He was advised by SAs Daly and Thomas that it was
not possible at this time to give him a response, however, we would
endeavor to make an analysis of prior requests to obtain this in-
formation and have it available for the meeting Monday, 7/28/75.

A general discussion was had concerning the new agree-
ment especially concerning the type of material which might
properly be excised and third agency problems. It was generally
agreed upon that not only the identity of informants be excised
but also information which might disclose the identity of infor-
mants might also be properly excised. Elliff indicated that the
Committee did not wish to see many items referred to the Attorney
General as is called for by the agreement for his decision and
would rather at least on a preliminary basis where it was a
question of the propriety of the excision that the discussion
be held with he or one of his representatives before such a
referral was made. Shaheen also indicated a desire that the
referrals to the Attorney General be kept to a minimum. Regard-
ing the "Third Agency" problems which are not addressed in the
agreement there was no final decision arrived at. Elliff and
Shaheen were under the impression that the clauses referring
to foreign intelligence operations or foreign intelligence
sources would handle this problem. They were advised that
this was not the case. This was not true since even in
these instances Senators on the Committee are given access
after the Attorney General has made a determination that
material involved "pecularily sensitive foreign intelli-

2
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 15
-
CONTINUED
-
OVER

Legal Counsel to J. B.. Adams Memorandum
RE: SENSTUDY 1975

intelligence operations." It was pointed out that this
would require that many documents be referred to the
Attorney General for his determination which would be
contrary to Messrs. Elliff's and Shaheen's desires.

The meeting was held 7/28/75, Messrs. Gitenstein and
Elliff of the Committee, Michael Shaheen and Steven K.. Blackhurst
of the Department, and SAs Paul V. Daly, Seymor Phillips and Elmer
Larson were in attendance. Regarding the "Third Agency" rule
problem, we advised the Department and the Committee that we
would continue to abide by this rule. The Committee presented
a request dated July 28, 1975, captioned "Superseding Request
for FBI Materials." This document amounted to a recapitulation
of prior requests made by the Committee with a schedule for
delivery set forth in accordance with the established guidelines
for the production of documents. An item-by-item analysis of the
request contained in the document was had and where necessary
modifications concerning scheduled responses was made. It was
obvious the intent of the Committee in making the superseding
request was to have more documents made available in the Commit-
tee offices and also to have less excisions made on documents.
previously furnished the Committee based on prior requests.
were requested by Shaheen to prepare as soon as possible cor-
respondence to the Attorney General setting forth instances where
the deadlines set by the Committee could not be made. This prompted
the provisions in the guidelines for the production duction of documents
which require the Attorney General to notify the Committee Chair-
man and Vice Chairman within 24 hours of any expected delay beyond
96 hours of the request.

RECOMMENDATION:

Action. For information.

JBHIал
Rid
в дна
Pen
Request berus
AVD
We
MPC
-3-
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 16

PROPOSED PROCEDURES

(1) The Domestic Task Force Leader will submit periodically a list
pertaining
of spexxx materials, xxxxxx to the inquiry being conducted under
S.R. 21, to which the Committee staff wishes access or of which the
specificity,
Committee dostres delivery. Any questions as to the scope for meaning
of any portion of such list shall be identified by the Special Counsel.
and discussed at the time of acceptance of the list, between the DIFL
and the Special Councel.

The first such list will be delivered to the Department of
Justice within 48 hours of the adoption of this procedure, and will
surmarize and supersede all the presently outstanding requests; this
list will be in priority order, "as fixed by the Committee, with fixed
delivery/access dates specified. Those materials for which the Comm
mittee requests delivery or access shall be delivered to the Committee
or made accessible in Room 4171 of the Hoover Building not later than
within 1696 hours of the date specified. The Committee Chairman and
Vice Chairman shall be informed by the Attorney General, within 24 hours
each
of receipt of xe request, of any delay beyond 4896 hours, the expected
length of the delay, and the specific reasons for the delay. Partial
access or delivery shall be proffered, by the Bureau of/to any materials
requested, while the balance of such materials are being prepared. A
partial proffer shall not extend the time of full response set forth
herein.
MOR-14
BALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/19/01 BY SP2 ALM

* Wherever used herein, the term Domestic Tack Force Leader (DTFL)
Staff Director,
is understood to include the Chief Counsel and the Minority Comel
of the Senate Select Comittee.
CLOSURE
NW 88608 Docld:32989633 Page 