JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 4/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10299-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO:

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 12/17/1963
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: 1 IRVING DAVIDSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS:

2025 Release under the John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 173 2
Docld:2375
Page 1

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEM******
XRAY HANDLING REQUIRED

Haitian (HTDA-2) ☑☑ WS 3160 3/0/X/T01-64((A))
IS 03 Jan 2127Z P
Dist: HCF

HAITI TO REQUEST RECALL OF U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIALS

FR Port-au-Prince: Dr. FRANCOIS 17 Dec 63
DUVALIER President of Haiti
TO Washington: THEARD
Msg Nr: confiden I. IRVING DAVIDSON

Please make contact with Mr. IRVING DAVIDSON((B)),
Washington representative, address Suite 306, City Building,
1612 K Street N.W., Washington 6, D.C., District 7-3400,
and give him in the name of the Haitian Government the
following highly confidential message:

"The Haitian Government has had to request of Charge
d'Affaires CURTIS the recall of three United States Embassy
officials, JOHN W WARREN, Military Attache, STANLEY D. MOSS
Cultural Attache, and JOHN HASEC((C)), Political Counsellor.
The State Department replied that the new Ambassador has been
instructed to discuss this question after he presents his
credentials, but that these officials will not be recalled
unless they are declared personae non grata, and that the State
Department will make reprisals.

John Hasey

Please explain to you know who the necessity of making
a cleaning-out of the Embassy so that Haitian-United States
relations may be resumed on a friendly and cordial basis.

The three officials have figured in the arousing of a
frankly hostile feeling toward the Haitian Government.
Military Attache WARREN has talked with high-ranking officers
of the Haitian Army in an effort to corrupt them and hatch
a plot against this Government. JOHN HASEC, a former member
of the Foreign Legion who came here directly from Viet Nam,
has no visible in the Embassy. He is drunk morning,
Haitian SOURCES ENDEXED 3/0/x/101-64 3/0/x/101-64-35

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S) NOT RECORDED
TOP SECRET DINAR JAN 23 1964

NW 173
Docld:2375
Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR
*********NO FOREIGN DISSEM********

Haitian 3/0/X/T01-64((A))

noon and night. We suspect that he has some special assignment.
He has talked about it in the course of conversations at the
Hotel El Rancho. Cultural Attache MOSS is a declared enemy of
the Haitian Government. The latest number of the magazine
"Actualites", edited by the U.S. Embassy Cultural Service in
memory of KENNEDY is an illustration of his spirit of
hostility. At his clear choice only intellectuals who are
enemies of this Government collaborated on this number. It
contained cables of condolence from many chiefs of state, but
not that of President DUVALIER. There was no mention of the
manifestations of numerous organizations in memory of KENNEDY,
as, for example, the three days of mourning, the funeral
service, etc.

We are requesting the departure also of NORMAN WARNER
because of the categorical position of opposition to this
Government which he took during the events of April and May.

Ambassador TIMMONS has produced a bad impression. He
seems to be the man least fitted to work for a Haitian-United
States rapprochement on a durable basis. We believe it would
be advisable that he be recalled even before he presents his
credentials and that a political personage of blended spirit
who is capable of understanding be designated.

Report immediately on the result of your demarches."

THEARD is requested to explain to Mr. IRVING the United
States position on recall and reprisals and to keep the Haitian
Government informed constantly.

Please translate into English for Mr. IRVING.

((A)) Previously issued as 3/0/HTD/T322-63 (incomplete text).
((B)) A public relations man who is an agent for Haiti in
the United States.
((C)) Not identified.
MS 974 CN [ILC] TI

-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 173
Docld:2375
Page 3
