JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 09/14/94
Page: 1

AGENCY : HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10245
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 03/04/75
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
HANDWRITTEN NOTES ON E. HOWARD HUNT.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS: O
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/14/94
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Contained in file entitled "Hunt, E. Howard - Interviewed 3/4/75"
"O/R-I (AA) (3)"

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141
Docld:32201330 Page 1

& Hunt

E. Howard Hunt Cf 3-4-75
Sisa Hunt, a/b March 9, 1957
3406 Nimity Rd, Capt A2
thensington, H. 20795

1245 NE 85t5t
124.5 NE
Miami Fla 33138
Pl. 705758-6159 (Silent)

"E Howard Hunt, The Compulsive Spy
By Tad Szule
is primary source of Gregory -Schoen
ibyou
man Errors:
- Hunt was Chief of Atelion in Max City in
fall of 1963.0

Hunt- 196241963
Jan 1962 asped to Domestic Oper. Rev.
of DDP, handling proprietaries
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED (1)(b)
11 Aug Eif en
based in U.S. Compact ( pact of which
is obroad.) Inmed. superior was
UP
R
geto
Stanley Saines was either Chief
of Oper or Exec Off of DOD H
Pracy Barnes was Dio Chief DOD.
Barnes is cousin by sararriage to
- Continental Press, prepared news
Fradio bdests for foreign
- Allied-Pacific Put Co. of
Bombay - pull last boobs...
for ludian schools.

NW 78141
Docld:32201330 Page 2

Ho
-Rome Railay Arnerican - a Cover
operation
- Fodoris Travel Guides - Hunt
questioned whether it had any
Had been set up in 1946
luse
Os cover,
later
Ay was here have on Ta ase
was here at Aug 1717 H St
This asgunt lasted until Spring 165
Never went to Mexico or other fati
Lever
Am Country
Ist went to Mexing 1970 fout
Co. ofter retirement
mount ofter 1961 1970 for Mullin
fr
May have changed planes in Dallas in 1960.
(w/o leav derport on way to Mexicdity
Aif Co. credit cards. hell in 1965
Esso
Sull
Texaco
Cities Service
Charge acdsen 1963.
Brooks Bron -NY.
Sarfinkels
Woodward fothrop
Sears
Hecht Co.
Chesapeake & Potomac Tel Co.
CIA should have travel voucher records
NW 78141
Docld:32201330 Page 3
Annual leave

1961 Edward J. Hamilton pseudonym
used by Hunt in re proyect
in Fold
Thinks he travelled to chudia 1012
times per year, 2or 3 times to Parin
+ 1-2 times per year in Londor,
+ 1 or less limes per yomin Rome.
Only domestic travel in 163 we have
beeen to NY. all troval done
in his own me
s
On 22 Nov 63, he trife were drivning
on t It of gutt in Wash. D.
when heard on Car radio. Had
leeen in Chinese grocery store.
On way have to 5215 Ballon Rd,
Sumner, MR. Drove home after
Stopping apper Sidwelltro t
picked up younger daughter Keven
Hunt.
Qu
✓ Rebent & Courtney
Kevan reylembers that Robot tennedis.
Children, in Jane sohool, had
licen picked up fuone school by Secret
Service & the Children new alt
assess.
lup
Witseses to fact Hunt herein Wash.
Son - Howard St. John Hel, then 10.
Daughter Sisa, then 12
Daughter - Kevan, then 11
Maid - Mary Trayner, now w/ familjat
-
48806
Chevy bt. De Russey Plawy
Pll. 652-2930
Hd.
NW 78141
Docld:32201330 Page 4

Hunt
thinly he was on leave leting
the day off that day. Als
have been recuperating from
hospitaly for ulcers
Hospital, Wesh. D. c.
5
NW 78141
Docld:32201330 Page 5
