AGENCY : HPSCI
fin
8/4/16
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
Date: 09/19/94
Page: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10255
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: KNOCHE, E.Η.
TO: BELIN, DAVID W.
TITLE :
DATE : 05/08/75
PAGES: 18
SUBJECTS :
LETTER SENDING MATERIALS RELATING TO ALLEN DULLES AND WARREN
COMMISSION.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : C
RESTRICTIONS: OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : 0 Postponed
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/14/94
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : 2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 1

-Confidential-
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

May 8, 1975

Mr. David W. Belin
Executive Director
Commission on CIA Activities
Within the United States

Dear Mr. Belin:

Per our conversation in your office
this morning, I attach the only materials we have
that relate to Allen Dulles and the Warren
Commission.

There may be other papers in the hands
of the Dulles family or at Princeton University.

Faithfully yours,
Esfknoche

E. H. Knoche
Assistant to the Director

Attachment: a/s

Forget
Classified by 014359
Exempt from General Declassification of EO. 11652
Exemption Category 5B (1), (2), (3)
Automatically Declassified on
Date Impossible to Determine

Kp/zap 95 Confidential
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
8 Aug 94.
(this page)

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 2

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Review of Personal Papers of Mr. Dulles

I reviewed the personal papers of Mr. Dulles covering
the period after his departure from the Agency and while he
was a member of the Warren Commission. I also reviewed Agency
historical documents relating to Cuba. The review did not
turn up anything of special significance or importance. For
the most part, Mr. Dulles' papers included correspondence
dealing with his book, personal contacts, and social activities.
I have attached copies of all material in his papers that in
any way dealt with the Kennedy assassination or the work of
the Warren Commission. I have also attached relevant
individual items culled from his daily diary.

Joseph Seltzer
Joseph Seltzer

Kp/zap 99
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
8 Alng 9.4
(this page)

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 3

16 July 1964

Mr. Helms. Re call from Lee Rankin about wording to be
used in report. Chief Justice assured Mr. McCone nothing
would be included.

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 4

Sherman Hour
Chappen iddick Island
Edgartown, Mass.
(?)...
November 5, 1943

Dear Mr. Dulles,

I was sorry not to have the
opportunity to see you during my
brief visit to Washington. I would
like to have paid my respects and
to have offered to assist you in
any way that I might during your
service on the Commission of Investigator
of the Presidents assassination.
The labors of this commission will
be most vital and can contribute
- must contribute to - the preservation-
the political and social fabric of
he nation.

It was my feeling that perhaps I
would help you again as I used to in
SG and Special Group matters as an
intelligent and informed big man, - a
coordinator, a gatherer of information - in
sense "a hewer of wood and carrier
of water." As you know I have handled
affairs before - the British and Chimets, keen.
NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 5

-2-

know my way around Washington in
all branches of the government - the
Material War College.

Of most importance I have a
personal angle. Mr. Kennedy was
friend and classmate. I would
like to contribute to a dignified
assessment of the whys and to the
definitive conclusions which would
lay a basis for favorable socio-political
awakening:

The Commission, I presume a
commissioned, would work through existing
agencies. It must however quite the
reporting from those agencies and, at
times, suggest further lines of
investigation. In this area I could
also be of help.

At present I am awaiting the
start of the next school year when
I shall resume my pre CIA
services as a Professor of Economics
and I am available if you should
need my services.

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 6

-3-

I know that the investigation
of this tragic event is in good
hands. It is a most important
responsibility. Its results will have
manifold implications for the future.
I wish you well.

Sincerely.
Sherman Hoar

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 7

Annex to Noven r 29, 1963, Diary:

About 5:30 on Friday, November 29, while I was
sitting around the fire after a game of golf at Lloyd
Neck, the telephone rang and I was advised that the
President wanted to speak with me. I went to the phone
and the White House operator said that the President
wanted to speak with me, that he was on another line,
and would I hold on for a minute. After a short wait
the operator told me that someone had gone into the
room and that she would call me back.

She called me back in five minutes. This gave
me a brief chance to puzzle out what it was the President
wanted to say to me. As it turned out, aided by some
news items that the President was considering appointing
a high-level commission to look into all the circumstances
of the assassination of the President, I was led to put this
as the first possibility. Soon the call came through. The
President was on the line. I told him how much my thoughts
had been with him in recent days. He thanked me. Then
in a very kind expression of appreciation for what he
thought I had done for the country over the years, he said
he wished me to do a job for him. I asked him what it was.
He said he was appointing a commission to look into all
the circumstances surrounding the assassination and the later
killing of the man believed responsible for the assassination.
This commission would include the Chief Justice, members of
the House and Senate from both parties, and two men outside
of government, including myself, if I would serve.

I told the President without hesitation that I was
prepared to serve if he felt I could be of service to him
and the nation. I said that I assumed that he had considered
my recent job and that he did not consider that this service
was in any way an impediment. He said he had carefully
considered it and he felt that, on the contrary, it would
be helpful. I said I assumed that what he had told me was
entirely confidential. He said it was until it was announced
and he did not know the exact hour of that. I said I would,
of course, maintain the confidence.

κριτα 99
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 8

Telephone Items from Diary of Mr. Dulles

22 November 1963 - 3 Ρ.Μ.
Returned to Washington (from Williamsburg) - with John
Warner after hearing of JFK's death.

6 December 1963
06
(Mr. Jose Colon), Madison Hotel. Reported that group of
air force officers had planned to try to impeach President
Kennedy before next re-election. AWD advised he reported to
FBI. Only lead to identities is that one was former air
attache in Czechoslovakia. (Colon) with North American
Aviation Company.
06
6 December 1963

Mr. Ray Cline. Requested an assessment of reaction
abroad to assassination, done by important areas - Soviet,
Satellite, Chinese. What line they are taking, etc?

27 January 1964

Mr. Angleton. Stated that it was all right to give
the Rockwell Report to the Commission.

28 January 1964

Mr. Rocca. Mentioned article in Labor Monthly by Palme
"After Kennedy"; thesis is that CIA killed the President.

7-February 1964

Mr. Angleton. They are getting a lot of reports published
in Italy based on Chief Justice's statements that Oswald was a
CIA agent and tying him to the FBI.

5 June 1964

Congressman Ford. Would like AWD to ask some questions
for him on Monday at Commission hearings since he will be
unable to attend.

2/
NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 9
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO .
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
JC & Aug 94
(3)
κριτα 99
(five pages)

December 6, 1963

Memorandum for Mr. James 'Angleton
Subject
06
Letter from Mr. (Jose Colon)

06
Please see enclosed letter from (Jose Colon)
Over the phone he told me that he had some infor-
mation, rather vague, about some plot of air force
officers to "impeach" President Kennedy, including
an Air Force officer who had been attache in
Czechoslovakia. I told him that such information
should be brought to the attention of the FBI. He
promised to do it but whether he will or not, I do
not know.

I can only judge by telephone conversation
in that he talked quite sanely but very vaguely.

AWD

Enclosure

awd:mk
1 - chr
1 - Commission file

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION O
DECLASSIFICATION AN
RELEASE OF THIS DOCU...
AS SANITIZED
Je 8 Aug 74.
(3)

2/
NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 10

January 30, 1964

Memorandum for: The Honorable Lee Rankin
:
Attached are a few items of possible interest:

(1) a copy of an article in the January 1964
British "Labour Monthly" by, I believe, R. P. Dutt. I
understand he is the editor of the "Labour Monthly" and a
British Communist. I am seeking further data with regard
to Dutt. I call your attention particularly to the section
beginning on page 13, entitled "A C.I.A. Job?". I suggest
that you might wish the CIA to send to you directly all
important items of this general nature and also items
bearing on the future Communist propaganda treatment of
the assassination issue with their estimate, preferably
coordinated with the State Department, showing the general
trend of such propaganda, if there is one. It has been
my experience that the Communist party of the Soviet Union
exercises a good deal, but not complete, control over the
propaganda activities of the various Communist parties
in the free world and often uses these parties or selected
ones to launch various trial balloons in the propaganda
field.
:
(2) a letter I obtained from a source I will
indicate to you orally written by George de Mohrenschildt,
who you may recall appears in the Commission's records as
one of the men who had contact with, and as I recall, some
influence over Oswald. You will recall that the State
Department had interrogated him briefly. I believe, at the
insistence of the FBI. This letter might furnish a desirable
basis for some further interrogation as I did not find the
State Department interrogation wholly satisfactory.

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 11
(3) a letter from Robert C. McManus, who writes

κριτα 99
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
8 Aug 14
(3版)

Mr. Rankin - Page 2

on stationery of the Senate Judiciary Committee and
makes certain allegations bearing on the Commission's
work. I do not know the writer and I have merely
acknowledged the letter and stated I was referring
it to the Commission. It may require no further answer.

I have.
Here are one or two additional thoughts

(a) that we study the use made of post office
boxes in connection with Oswald's activities and crimes
and also ascertain the terms and conditions under which
post office boxes can be rented, and whether there are
uniform regulations or whether it is left more or less
to the whim of local postmasters. Oswald's ability to
hire a post office in a fictitious name and to use it for
the receipt of firearms seems to have facilitated his criminal
activities. Later the Commission might possibly wish to
make some suggestions on this subject.

(b) I should be glad to see the conclusions of
the recent report outlined a few days ago in The New York
Times giving arguments for the shifting of the Narcotics
Bureau from the Treasury Department.

(c) Do we have an adequate study by the State
Department of their policy, of any legislation affecting
it, with regard to the terms and conditions of the registra-
tion of undesirables? I assume that an American citizen
who has not forfeited his rights as such las an undeniable
right to return to the United States, but I am not clear
whether this is under law or merely established practice.

(d) Do we have any recent study available as
to the extent to which, under the Constitution, the rights
of citizens (or residents?) to acquire and retain firearms
apart from the question of legislation with regard to the
bearing of concealed arms?
-
NW 78141
DocId:32201340 Page 12
Someone asserted to me the other day that tax

Mr. Rankin - Page 3

collections in Texas applicable to the maintenance of its
police force, etc., were unusually low as contrasted with
other states. I doubt whether this was a correct judg-
ment as I do not think that one can segregate in Texas.
or elsewhere the tax collections for police as against
other public services.

Allen W. Dulles

Enclosures

awd:mk
1 - chr
1 - Commission official corres file

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 13

DUIT, Rajani Palme

Dutt was born in 1896 at Cambridge, England.
His father, a doctor in Cambridge, belonged to a prominent.
Bengali family. His mother was Swedish. Was educated
at Perse School in Cambridge, Balliol Oxford. He became
a charter member of the British Communist party in 1920.
Has been the British Communist party's leading theoretician
since then.
:
He founded the "Labour Monthly" in 1921 and
has been editor since then. Has taken an active interest
in Indian Communist party affairs and was Secretary-
Chairman of the British Communist party for a period in
1939. He also served for a time in the Communist party
of Great Britain politburo. His standing with Moscow is
excellent. In 1962 was afforded an honorary doctorate
of history at Moscow University, where he lectured in
April and May 1962. These lectures were published by
Lawrence and Wishart in London 1963 under the title of
*Problems of Contemporary History". One part of his
lecture dealt with the cold war. The main theme of this
section was to establish that the responsibility for the
origins of the cold war rested with the West and tha the
West merely continued the policies of the Nazis and the
Fascists.

Dutt's current position has been described as
head of the international department of the Communist
party of Great Britain, an office which he has held since
at least 1956. He is also vice-chairman of the Communist
party of Great Britain and again a member of the political
and national executive committee.

NW-78141-
Docld:32201340 Page 14

February 26, 1964

Memorandum for
The Honorable Lee Rankin

From
A. W. Dulles

I read with great interest the papers attached
to the agenda for the Commission's meeting February 24,
1964. In J. Edgar Hoover's letter to you of February 10,
1964, on page 2, last paragraph, there is reference to
Mr. Robert Storey's statement to Mr. Wade that when he,
Storey, was with the War Crimes Commission in Germany after
World War II, he ascertained that "the Central Intelligence
Agency had informants that no one knew about, except the
Central Intelligence Agency agent, and that the informant
might have been an informant".

While this statement is not very clear, I would
point out that the Central Intelligence Agency was not
organized until late 1947 under the National Security
Act of that year and that the Agency Mr. Storey is presum-
ably referring to, if he did make the statement, must be
the Office of Strategic Services, which was dissolved in
late 1945. Of course, during the period of existence of
the OSS, Lee Harvey Oswald was an infant.

With respect to J. Edgar Hoover's letters to you
of February 11 and 13, 1964, I suggest that it may be
desirable to try to clear up the confusion as to the existence
of the "law enforcement officer in Dallas" who allegedly
claimed that L. H. Oswald had been contacted by the FBI
to become an informant. As I read the record avaiàable to
me, there seems to be some conflict in the testimony of
newsmen Huckins and Golden. Very possibly this has arisen
from the three contacts the FBI had with Oswald on June 26,
and August 10 and 16, 1962. I dá not find in the affidavits
any indication of the purpose of either the June 26 or
August 16 visits. The August 10 visit apparently related
to the New Orleans Fair Play for Cuba incident. Have' we
memoranda on these visits to Lee Harvey Oswald?

AWD
κριτα 99
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION!
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
8 Aug 14
i
-NW-78141
Docld:32201340 Page 15

March 25, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. RANKIN

FROM: A. W. Dulles

I have spoken to Mr. McCone and
Mr. Helms about the general subject matter
of your memorandum of March 17, 1964, regarding
Lee H. Oswald and the charge that he was a
paid informant of the FBI, CIA or another
Federal agency.

Mr. McCone is away from Washington
this week, but I have suggested to Mr. Helms
that the first procedure suggested by you be
followed; namely, an appropriate affidavit.. I
understand that this is now being prepared and
will be submitted to Mr. McCone upon his
return early next week..

awd:mk
1 - chr
1 - official Commission corres

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 16
Κρ 120 99
• CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
Ava 14

June 5, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE HONORABLE LEE RANKIN

FROM A. W. DULLES

Last evening Attorney General Carr dined
with Jack McCloy and me and had one or two
suggestions:

1. that the Commission might wish to
interview (a) Mr. and Mrs. Earl Cabell. They were
in a strategic position in the automobile proces-
sion at the time of the assassination. We saw them
briefly when we visited Dallas. (b) Lewis Nichols,
former President of the Dallas Bar Association,
who called on Oswald in connection with the question
of his being legally represented. Carr seems to
think that he has some interesting information
that has not been obtained. (c) Elgin Crull, City
Manager of Dallas, who, as such, was in direct over-
all command of the police.

2. Carr also mentioned a black notebook
belonging to Oswald which had two Washington
telephone numbers: (a) the Russian Embassy and
(b) a telephone number with no rame but which was
called by the Dallas police.. The person answering
was apparently a Negro pastor here.

awd:mk
1 - chr
1 - Commission official corres
isl
AWD
12 αρώ 99 κρ
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
8 Aug 94

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 17

Memorandum for Lee Rankin

From A. W. Dulles
July 27, 1964

As a result of my weekend reading which I
have returned with comments, I have the following
comments in addition to comments noted on the
material returned.

1. Where have we dealt with the evidence
as to Oswald's ability to handle a rifle?

2. Where do you plan to discuss Oswald's
escape pattern or plans; did he have any - if so,
why did he leave $170 at the Paines and start out
with less than $207 If he killed the President to
make a name, gain notoriety, etc., why did he try to
escape at all and then deny the shooting whén caught?
I feel we must deal with these difficult issues. I
have some speculations on the subject.

3. If Marina had admitted that she had once
been a member of the Komsomol, would that have changed
the decision regarding her visa? I believe this has
been considered by the State Department. I feel we
should look into this.

4. A great deal of the description of the
motorcade and the shooting will be unclear unless we
have a street map and, if possible, a photo taken
from the sixth floor window. Is this possible?

κριγαργ 99
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
8. Ang 94

-NW-78-1-4-1--
Docld:32201340 Page 18

Mr. Rankin - Page 2

5. Would it be possible and desirable to
-
add to Chapter II a description, second by second -
taken from the frames of Zapruĉeis photos? This,
if well done, would be a most dramatic method of
describing the action. I don't think we have given
enough use to these photos.

6. Has there been any follow-up on the letters
-
to the Militant mentioned to us by Isaac Don Levine -
that possibly were written by Oswald?

7. Is there any section of the report which
deals with the protection of the President and Vice
President when abroad? Should we not deal with this
briefly?

awd:mk
1 - chr
1 - Pres Com - official corres
AWD

NW 78141
Docld:32201340 Page 19
