Date: 09/19/94
Page: 1
0121198
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: HPSCI CIA, HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10279 RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 05/26/64
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
FITNESS REPORT OF E. HOWARD HUNT.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS: OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : Ο Postponed
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/19/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
Contained in file entitled, "Hoch/Warren Commission Paper"
"O/R (V-F)"

2025 Release under the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141
DocId:32201364 Page 1

ECTION A
1. NAME
(Last)
HUNT,
SECRET
(When Filled In)
FITNESS REPORT
EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
013842
GENERAL
(Piret) (Middle) 2. DATE OF BIRTH 1. SEX 4. GRADE 5. SO
E. HOWARD 10/09/18 M GS-15 D
5. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
Oos Officer (Ch)
3. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
DDP/DODS/R&P Wash., D.C.
10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT
X CAREER RESERVE TEMPORARY INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructions Section C) X ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
SPECIAL (Specify): SPECIAL (Specify):
1. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P. 12. REPORTING PERIOD (From-to-)
31 May 1964 31 March 1953 31 March 1964
ECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
W - Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires
positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on
probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action token or proposed in Section C.
A Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor
excellence.
P-Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.
S- Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency..
0-Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of
others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.
SPECIFIC DUTIES
List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the
manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees
ith supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).
PECIFIC DUTY NO. I RATING
LETTER
Supervises all Division propaganda operations. S
PECIFIC DUTY NO. 2 RATING
LETTER
02
Project Officer WUHUSTLER, (WUBONBON S
PECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 RATING
LETTER
Conducts liaison with USIA, Staffs and Area Divisions as S
required to coordinate DODS foreign & domestic propaganda
PECIFIC DUTY NO.4 Operations. RATING
LETTER
1
PECIFIC DUTY NO. 5 RATING
LETTER
PECIFIC DUTY NO. 6 RATING
LETTER
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION
Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per-
formance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and RATING
LETTER
particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance in S
place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects hi
26 MAY 1964
NW-78141
Docld:32201364 Page 2

SECTION C
(When Filled in
NARRATIVE COMMENTS
ndicote significant strengths or weakne demonstrated in current position keeping in per perspective their relationshio to
verall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment
n foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best
Dasis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial of supervisory duties must be described, if
applicable..

Subject has performed in a manner quite consistent with his long and broad ex-
perience in many aspects of the craft of intelligence, His senior grade, his special
expertise in the field of propaganda and publication and his very high intellect
have contributed to the division's operations in the public media field a sharp
focus, an economical concentration of money and effort and a consequently
heightened impact. In the WUHUSTLER project, Subject vindicated his faith in
a moribund clandestine asset by demonstrating, after about a year and a half under
his personal direction, that it is one of the most effective activities of its kind.
Before Subject assumed direct responsibility for this project, it had suffered from
visionary and diffuse direction and from poor case officer-agent rapport. Subject's
personal handling of this operation is marked by excellent rapport and the project
prospers on an entirely reoriented basis which the agent himself enthusiastically
welcomes.

Subject's supervisory responsibility has extended over two secretaries, from one
to two professional staffers under official cover and three professional career
employees under unofficial cover. The fairness and precision of his management
has patently won their respect and inspired their performance.

(Continued on additional sheet)
:
ECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE
I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT
ATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
10 Diccy 1.4
ONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN EY SUPERVISOR
NDER MY SUPERVISION
:
IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT SEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

LTE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYP SIGNATURE
May 1964. DCOS :
INMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Concur

TE TITLE
OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
1AV 1054
शल्याटिन C.T.Daruss

NW 78141 -SECRET-
Docld:32201364 Page 3

Attachment to Fitness Report of Howard Hunt 31 March 63 - 31 March 64

Section C (Continued)

Special mention should be made of Subject's objectivity and integrity in
carrying out his responsibilities. These were best demonstrated when
he promptly and swiftly terminated a large and effective radio broadcast-
ing project, to establish which he and his subordinates had labored hard,
immediately upon belated discovery that insuperable, practical obstacles
precluded realization of the project's theoretical potential.

Subject's professional background has attuned his constant attention to
FI operational opportunities arising in the course of his current CA
activities, a practice consistent with his habit of seeking maximum benefit
for every dollar spent in time, effort or cash.

NW 78141
Docld:32201364 Page 4
