30/01
8/27/98
Date: 09/14/94
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10246
RECORDS SERIES :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED
8/20/98
K
KP 12 apr 99

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : ROCK
FROM: CARGILL, MASON
TO : FILE

TITLE :

DATE : 04/22/75
PAGES : 27

SUBJECTS :
MCCONE PAPERS.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL Postponed
CURRENT STATUS : O
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/14/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 1

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500
April 22, 1975

MEMORANDUM

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
F
8 Aug 74
(1)(c)
(Eller faye waly)

To: File
From: Mason Cargill MC
Subject: MC CONE PAPERS

I have gone through most of the papers remaining
at the Agency prepared by DCI McCone from November 29, 1961,
through December 31, 1964. Attached are notes on portions
of them dealing in any way with possible assassination
attempts and contacts with the Warren Commission.

Enclosures
RMC:clb
(2)

SECRET SENSITIVE
MATERIAL ATTACHED

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 2

SECRET SENSITIVE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
F
8 Aug 74
(fosi 1-12 only)

MC CONE PAPERS
NOVEMBER 24, 1961 DECEMBER 31, 1964
REFERENCES TO CUBA ASSASSINATIONS,
WARREN COMMISSION MATTERS

BOX 2: MEMORANDA FOR RECORD

File: November 29, 1961 April 5, 1962

December 5, 1961, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy
"Lansdale operation" mentioned in paragraph 12.

December 27, 1961, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy
"Lansdale operation" mentioned in paragraph 5.

January 22, 1962, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy
Reference to a "Lansdale paper" to be discussed by the 5412
Committee plus Robert Kennedy.

April 5, 1962, Memos on Special Group/Mongoose Project
General discussion of possible military intervention in Cuba.

File: April 7, 1962 August 21, 1962

(40) April 10, 1962, phone call to Bundy explaining that
Attorney General upset that Perrez was apparently telling
people in Miami about his five meetings with the Attorney
General. Cardona was to meet JFK that day.

(61) July 3, 1962, meeting with Attorney General
included a short discussion of "Reuther plan" for labor
operations apparently in Italy.

(86) August 21, 1962, meeting with Rush, McNamara, Alexis
Johnson, the Attorney General, Director of Central Intelligence,
General Taylor, Lemnitzer, and M. Bundy a general discussion
of Cuban situation and possible courses of action if MRBM's
are discovered in Cuba:

"McNamara expressed strong feelings
that we should take every possible aggressive
action in the fields of intelligence, sabo-
tage and guerrilla warfare, utilizing Cubans
and do such other things as might be indi-
cated to divide the Castro regime."
(emphasis added)

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 3
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

2

File: August 24, 1962 December 31, 1962

(97) October 5, 1962, Meeting between DCI and Bundy:
McCone wanted to be more activist toward Cuba Bundy was
more conservative. (No specifics)

(118) December 17, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on
Cuba [MISSING]
[Apparently not a meeting or phone call]
(Comments on Report on Missile Crisis, according to Elder)

(119) December 18, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on Cuba
[MISSING]

(120) December 19, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on Cuba
[MISSING]

File: June 1, 1963 February 9, 1963

(12) January 21, 1963, phone call between DCI and
Eisenhower (transcript) about Cuba. (No mention of
assassination.)

File: February 9, 1963 April 9, 1963

(36) March 5, 1963, Memo of DCI discussion with Attorney
General [No one to see without DCI permission] [DESTROYED]
[According to Elder, dealt with wiretap of newsmen.]

(38) March 7, 1963, Memo of conversation with Attorney
General at Hickory Hill [No one to see without DCI permission]
[DESTROYED]

(52) March 30, 1963, DCI discussion with Eisenhower and
Lundahl on "current status of Cuba" [DESTROYED]

File: April 15, 1963 June 4, 1963

(68) Memo of DCI on Cuban Policy: "Random thoughts
developed by DCI on various aspects of the Cuban problem
and the discussions at Standing Group prepared for use by
representatives of DCI at meetings on this subject during
his absence from the country," April 25, 1963, contains
the following:

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 4
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

3

"I agree with the ONE estimate that
Castro's political position will im-
prove within the next year (barring
assassination)."

The context clearly indicates, however, that DCI is not
proposing this.

(77) DCI memo of May 18, 1963, on Haiti: contains this
statement: "Apparently Duvalier, in the absence of assassi-
nation, will survive the efforts of internal opposition
elements..." Context indicates DCI was not proposing or
considering assassination.

(61) April 15, 1963, Memo of meeting between Attorney
General and Director of Central Intelligence about "Helms/
Angleton operation, Cuban sabotage proposals" [DESTROYED]

(62) April 17, 1963, Meeting of DCI and Rusk about:
"Helms/Angleton Project..." [DESTROYED]

File: June 5, 1963 July 20, 1963

Nothing Relevant

File: July 23, 1963 November 26, 1963

(133) August 20, 1963, Luncheon with DCI, Colonel Grogan,
Tom Ross of Chicago Sun Times [MISSING]

(138) September 5, 1963, DCI and Bundy, "After Special Group"
[MISSING]

(138) September 7, 1963, DCI and Papich [MISSING]

(138) September 12, 1963, DCI and J. Edgar Hoover at
Justice Department [MISSING]

(158.5) October 24, 1963, DCI/Robert F. Kennedy lunch at
Kennedy's house [MISSING]

(168) November 26, 1963, DCI and Bundy on message about
Kennedy assassination [MISSING]

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 5
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

4

(168) November 15, 1963, DCI and Rusk: Sukarno had said
that British and CIA were plotting to kill him. Rusk asked
if CIA had any information about a plot by British. DCI
said no.

File: November 27, 1963 December 31, 1963

[Entire contents of file missing.]

From titles, nothing here appears relevant.

File: January 1, 1964 February 11, 1964

Nothing relevant.

File: February 12, 1964 April 5, 1964

[Entire contents of file missing.]

(25.5) February 19, 1964, DCI and Fitzgerald: "White House
Meeting Situation Room Re: Cuba" [DESTROYED]

(36.1) March 14, 1964, Meeting of DCI, Bundy, Helms [DESTROYED]

(46) April 5, 1964, Meeting of DCI and Rusk: "EYES ONLY
NO DISTRIBUTION FSO Richard Fredericks; Carl Rowan;
Republican Platform of 1960." [DESTROYED]

File: April 6, 1964 July 8, 1964

(49) April 16, 1964, Meeting with: DCI, Justice Warren,
Senator Cooper, Stern, Rankin, Willens of subject: "Met in
DCI's Office" [MISSING]

(58) May 14, 1964, DCI, Rankin, Helms Subject: "Warren
Commission (accompanied by Mr. Helms). Helms saw commission
transcript and returned it to the commission." "NO MR
expected" [MISSING]

(69) June 12, 1964, DCI, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Luce: "Memos
used at lunch re: Cuban article in TIME" NO DISTRIBUTION
nothing on assassinations.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 6
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

5

File: July 8, 1964 August 12, 1964

(No file under these dates.)

File: August 12, 1964 September 10, 1964

Nothing relevant.

File: September 11, 1964 October 31, 1964

(138) October 15, 1964, DCI, Sam Papich "NO DISTRIBUTION
discussion re Walter Jenkins' matter." [DESTROYED]

(143) October 22, 1964, DCI, Robert Kennedy: "In
Presidential Suite, NYC Personal discussion EYES ONLY
JAM NO DISTRIBUTION" [DESTROYED]

File: November 1, 1964 December 31, 1964

Nothing relevant.

BOX 8: MEMORANDA OF MEETINGS WITH THE PRESIDENT

File: October 25, 1961 July 31, 1962

(B) December 14, 1961, at a meeting with the President
and General Taylor, DCI advised Kennedy that there were
possible dangers that he might be the subject of an assassi-
nation attempt on his planned trip to Colombia and Venezuela,
which the CIA could not guarantee the safety of.

(6) February 11, 1962, at a meeting with the President,
Bundy, and Taylor, DCI discussed efforts to convince one
Charles Murphy not to write a certain article for Life
magazine on some subject related to Cuba. Apparently, the
article was revised to DCI's satisfaction and then published.

(12) May 7, 1962, at a meeting with the President and
Taylor, DCI discussed Operation Mongoose in some detail.
No mention of assassinations.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 7
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

6

File: July 31, 1962 November 29, 1962 [actually covering
through Dec. 18, 1962]

(28) July 20, 1962: At a meeting with the President,
Taylor, and Alexis Johnson, Mongoose was discussed. No
mention of assassination.

(52) October 26, 1962: At a meeting of NSC Executive
Committee, DCI discussed Mongoose. No mention of assassination.

(55) October 30, 1962: "Memo to DDCI outlining Presidential
Directive to CIA; no provocative actions by refugee groups;
estop Alpha 66; stop Mongoose ops; no contact with Press."
[MISSING]

(70) November 29, 1962: At a meeting of the NSC
Executive Committee (President absent) DCI discussed
Mongoose. No mention of assassination.

File: January 1, 1963 March 31, 1963

(7) January 23, 1963 (4:30 p.m.): Meeting with President,
DCI, and Helms." No memo present. Listing does not indicate
whether or not memo was prepared, even though it generally
indicates when memos were not prepared. Secretary's note
of 1/27/72 (MB) notes: "No MR in file"

(8) January 23, 1963 (4:45 p.m.): Meeting between DCI
and President missing memo; same situation as #(7) above.

(28) March 25, 1963: In meeting with President, DCI
"reviewed the requirements for telephonic and audio surveillance
intelligence at selected embassies and foreign residences within
the United States..." President suggested that the DCI talk
with J. Edgar Hoover on this matter.

File: April 1, 1963 July 1, 1963

(33) April 16, 1963: In meeting with the President, DCI
discussed two methods of dealing with Castro: (1) "Working
on" Castro to turn him from Soviets; (2) Pressuring USSR to
remove from Cuba and "then to bring about the downfall of
Castro by means which could be developed after the removal
of Soviet troops..." No mention of assassination.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 8
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

7

(43) May 27, 1963: In meeting of President, DCI, and
others, policy towards covert operations against Haiti were
discussed. No mention of assassination.

(50) June 19, 1963: In meeting with the President and
others, DCI discussed plans for covert operations against
Cuba, including "external sabotage." Vague memo of record
by Desmond FitzGerald, but no mention of assassination.

File: July 1, 1963 November 12, 1963

(74) November 12, 1963: At a meeting of the President, DCI,
and others, 'McCone emphasized that to a very considerable
extent these [Cuban exile groups] are uncontrollable and
forecast that once Artime was in business, we might expect
some events to take place which were not exactly to our liking."
(This was in a general discussion of covert actions against
Cuba; no mention of assassination.)

File: November 23, 1963 December 31, 1963

(1) November 23, 1963 (memo of November 25): DCI told
Lyndon B. Johnson of information received from Mexico City.
DCI later called Rusk to tell him of information from Mexico City:
"...the holding of a Mexican employee of the Cuban embassy by
Mexican officials for interrogation concerning Lee Oswald."

(4) November 25 and 26, 1963 (memo of November 26): In
meetings with the President and the DCI, the President expressed
"contempt" at Justice Department suggestion of independent inves-
tigation of John F. Kennedy's assassination. He instructed the
DCI to insure CIA cooperation with the FBI report.

(4) November 29, 1963: In a meeting with DCI, Lyndon B.
Johnson, McNamara, and Bundy, the DCI apparently gave latest
developments in Mexico City investigation of Oswald. A list
of "late developments" is in file, to be used for this purpose.
(Obtain copy.)

File: January 1, 1964 April 2, 1964

Nothing relevant.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 9
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

8

File: April 3, 1964 May 20, 1964

(19) April 7, 1964: Meeting of DCI, President, and others
re Cuba Covert Action.
Here DCI advocates strong program to obtain overall objective
set forth in a paper of June 8, 1963: "The ultimate objective
of this policy would be to encourage dissident elements in the
military and other power centers of the regime to bring about the
eventual liquidation of the Castro/communist entourage and the
elimination of the Soviet presence from Cuba." (emphasis added)
【OBTAIN COPYI

File: May 21, 1964 October 5, 1964

September 30, 1964: Meeting of "DCI; President; et al" to
discuss "Warren Commission Report (to set up Presidential
Committee)" No memo indicated to have been prepared.

File: October 6, 1964 December 28, 1964

Nothing Relevant.

BOX 1: 303 COMMITTEE, COUNTERINSURGENCY, SPECIAL GROUP,
CHRONO (1962)

File: 303 January December, 1963

Several sets of minutes have the following notations after
paragraphs dealing with Cuban operations: "See special
minutes for additional items." No such "special minutes"
appear to be contained in this file.* However, this same nota-
tion appeared in connection with other subjects.

This file contains several discussions of the Haitian problem.
Although it's clear the participants would like to be rid of
Duvalier, there is no mention of assassination.

Nothing else relevant.

File: January December, 1964

Contains discussion of Haitian problem, and CIA agreed to
"explore methods of dealing with the Duvalier problem in
the immediate future." (May 12, 1964)

*Other than certain memoranda prepared by McCone.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 10
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

9

The minutes of the June 18, 1964, meeting (dated June 22, 1964).
contained the following: [OBTAIN COPY] (signed by Peter Jessup)
"A paper was discussed on alleged plans which involve
the underworld to assassinate certain Cuban leaders.
Mr. McCone was somewhat skeptical of the reported plots and
stated that he would like to go into the matter further.
Others, including Mr. Bundy, felt that the United States was
being put on notice and should do everything in its power to
ascertain promptly the veracity of the reports and then under-
take prevention. It was decided that Mr. Bundy would call the
matter to the Attorney General's attention as a matter of law
enforcement."

Mr. McCone's personal memorandum for the record on this
meeting (dated) June 18, 1964, contains substantially the same
information. [OBTAIN COPY] It refers to a June 10, 1964, CIA
memorandum "reporting plans of Cuban exiles to assassinate
leading Cuban government leaders." This memo apparently had
been sent to Special Group members and the Attorney General.
[OBTAIN COPY] McCone's memo contains the following:

"ACTION: Discuss with General Carter and Mr. Helms steps we
should take to establish the credibility of the report; also
communicate with the FBI through Mr. Papich. Also I should
call the Attorney General personally."

The official minutes of the July 30, 1964, 303 Committee
meeting (dated July 31, 1964) (referred to in 1967 IG report)
contain no mention of assassination or even of Cuba.
Mr. McCone's personal memorandum (dated July 31, 1964) had
only the following reference to Cuba:

"Proposed infiltration/exfiltration operations into Cuba for
August were approved and the July operations were noted."

File: Counterinsurgency January June, 1962

Nothing relevant.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 11
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

10

BOX 7 MISCELLANEOUS

Envelope "Cuba Loose Ends"
Much information on Mongoose. No mention of assassination.

Envelope containing FBI report of October 16, 1963, entitled
"Communism and the Negro Movement A Current Analysis"
contains comments on Dr. King's personal life. Relayed by
J. Edgar Hoover to McCone.

File: "Cuba Background Material"

This file contains only material relating to the Cuban missile
crisis. It contains no references to any assassinations.

File: "White House"

This file, covering 1962 and 1963, contains correspondence
to, from, and of interest to the White House.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 12
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

11

BOX 5: MISCELLANEOUS

The file entitled "Cuba Package" does not appear to be in this
box. The name of this file, however, appears on the page which
purports to list the files in the box.

File: Cuba 1962

Nothing relevant to assassinations.

File: Cuba 1964

February 21, 1964, memorandum for the Director of Central
Intelligence from Desmond FitzGerald, Chief, Special Affairs
Staff, entitled "Spectrum of Courses of Action with Respect
to Cuba." This nine-page memorandum outlines many possible
courses of action which the U.S. Government could take with
respect to Fidel Castro even including measures as drastic as
an actual invasion of the island by U.S. military forces. It,
however, contains no mention or reference to possible assassi-
nation of Castro.

BOX 6: MISCELLANEOUS

File: Presidential Briefing, December 22, 1964

Nothing relevant to assassination.

File: "M" File

Nothing relevant to our subject of interest.

File: "D" File

This file contains papers dealing with the services of Allen
Dulles as a consultant to the Agency after his retirement.
There is no mention of the subject in which we are interested.

File: "W" File

Nothing relevant.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 13
SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET SENSITIVE

12

BOX 4: MISCELLANEOUS

From the listing of files contained, nothing appeared likely
to contain relevant information. Therefore, the files in this
box were not examined.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 14
SECRET SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500
April 30, 1975

MEMORANDUM

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
8 Aug 74
(1)(c)
(2 pages only)

To: File
From: Mason Cargill MC
Subject: MONGOOSE MATERIALS RETAINED BY THE CIA

Joseph Selzer of the Inspector General staff made
available to me all the materials he has been able to assemble
from CIA sources concerning Project MONGOOSE. These consist
of three file folders and one loose-leaf binder. I have
examined them to determine if any reference is made to assassi-
nation, liquidation, or elimination of Castro.

The first document in this pile is a copy of the
minutes of the August 10, 1962, meeting of the special group
augmented, prepared by Tom Parrot. They were forwarded to
Dr. Chamberlain, the CIA Inspector General, by Robroy Ratliff,
a CIA employee detailed to the National Security Council. A
cover memo of April 18, 1975, was attached, may be of some
interest, and reads as follows:

"FYI, We received a request from Belin
of the Vice President's Commission to
examine our files on MONGOOSE and other
Cuban and D.R. files. While this request
has not been resolved, the preliminary
response is not to allow this access.
Signed Robroy Ratliff."

The minutes of the August 10, 1962, meeting
contained no mention, implicit or explicit, of assassination.

The first complete file examined was a long green
cardboard file without a title on it. Inside, however, it is
indicated to be a record of Special Group meetings and

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 15
TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

2

Special Group (Augmented) meetings at which General Carter
participated and discussions of Cuba and/or Cuban overflights
during the period August 15 to November 14, 1962. This file
contains a memorandum dated October 16, 1962, from General
Carter to the Special Group Augmented, Subject: "Operation
MONGOOSE Sabotage Proposals." Paragraph 1c of this memorandum
contains a proposal that the CIA undertake undert grenade attack on
the Chinese Communist Embassy in Havana, to be carried out by
a recruited Cuban agent who has access to a roof overlooking
the (embassy) garden and who has volunteered for this mission."
24 the
24
The second file in this collection is entitled
simply "MONGOOSE." This contains nothing relevant to the
assassination inquiry.

Next in this collection in a large manila
envelope on which is written in ink the following notation:
"Separate cover attachment to ER75-5938." This envelope
contains miscellaneous papers related to MONGOOSE. The
documents in this envelope contain, among other things, a
long list of potential sabotage targets within Cuba. I found
no reference to assassination, either explicit or implicit.

The next file examined is marked "Cuba Special
Subject." This file also contains miscellaneous papers
relating to Project MONGOOSE, none of which contain any
references to assassination.

The last item of this MONGOOSE package consists
of a bulky loose-leaf binder of papers assembled for General
Carter's reference of significant things that happened during
the period of August to October, 1962. In this notebook, the
Inspector General has already flagged entries which refer in
any way to Operation MONGOOSE. I have examined all such
entries.

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 16
TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500
April 30, 1975

MEMORANDUM

KP 12 apr 99
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
C & Aug 14
(1)(A)
A) (12 peyes)

To: File
From: Mason Cargill MC
Subject: PROJECT ZRRIFLE AND QJWIN

On April 25, 1975, I was given three file folders
containing material on the above subjects by Mr. Joseph Selzer
of the Inspector General's staff. According to Mr. Selzer, his
review of these files indicates that the basic purpose of
ZRRIFLE and its asset QJWIN was the burglarization of premises
outside the United States for the purpose of obtaining crypto-
logic materials. He assures me that there is nothing in these
files which refer explicitly or implicitly to assassination or
"executive action" in any form. His opinion is that clandes-
tine operatives of the type who wrote the documents contained
in these files would never commit to writing anything having
to do with the subject of assassination.

The first file reviewed is entitled "ZRRIFLE/QJWIN/
RYBAT OPERATIONAL." The following entries in this file seem
to have some potential relevance:

1. Dispatch, dated November 1, 1960, to Chief of Station,
(Dakar), and Chief of Station, Luxembourg, from Chief, KUTUBE/D
at headquarters. This three-page dispatch apparently deals
with a mission on which a recruited agent, Jose Marie Andre
Mankel, will be sent from Luxembourg, where he was recruited,
to Dakar for the purpose of recruiting certain other agents
from among criminal elements there, specifically Corsicans.
The purpose for which these agents would ultimately be used
is not clear from this dispatch. However, paragraph 2a reads
as follows: "In view of the extreme sensitivity of the

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 17
TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

2

objective for which we want him to perform his task, he was
not told precisely what we want him to do. Instead, he was
told that we have evidence of Soviet operations among
nationality groups in Africa, specifically, Corsicans, and
that we would like to have him spot, assess, and recommend
some dependable, quick-witted persons for our use. (Comment:
It was thought best to withhold our true, specific require-
ments pending the final decision to use MANKEL.) He agreed
to go on the trip for us." It is not clear from this dispatch
that Chiefsof Station in Luxembourg and (Dakar) were completely
witting of the purpose for which Mankel is being sent to Dakar.
Paragraph 3 contains the following sentence: "Rabney gave
Jouvenoy [Chief of Station, Luxembourg) the same briefing 12-10
concerning our purposes as he had given to the PCR CROSS, CCDakar).
The remainder of the dispatch deals with details of the con-
tacts with Americans which Mankel may make in Dakar if he
requires further assistance, including instruction for bringing
about a clandestine meeting.
12-10
15-20
11
2. Cable dated November 2, 1960, from (Frankfurt) to th
Director with the notation: "Action: C/FI/D-4." This cab
contains the following statement in paragraph 1: "Altman m
Mankel 2 November. He accepted offer to procede Leopoldvil
Precise mission not conveyed to him, he only informed that
mission might involve large element of personal risk."
2-10
3. Cable, dated November 23, 1960, from Director to
stations at Luxembourg and (Dakar). This cable contains the
first identification of Mankel with the code name QJWIN.
The cable reads as follows: "AUDW 147 on QJWIN trip Dakar
pouched both stations 3 November.Confirm receipt by cable.
20-20
11
مح-رح" Luxembourg: will advise when to brief him on Dakar
mission after receipt further info from Altman per paragraph
to (FRAN)6959/(IN36814) on Leopoldville mission." This cable
contains the following code word references: RYBAT, LAURICLE,
ZRACORN.

4. Cable from Leopoldville to Director, with action
to C/FI/D4, dated 5 November 1960. It contains the following
paragraph:

NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 18
TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

3

SENSITIVE

"Please inform Mankel he should proceed Leopoldville
as soon as shots completed. Not necessary have Congo visa.
Should go Paris and take Air France flight to Brazzaville
and can obtain visa for Brazzaville in Paris."

This cable contains a handwritten note in the margin as
follows: "One copy given to Mr. Bissell by IS/Duty Off.
Saturday. Action to be taken by DDP. Ε.Β."

5. Cable, dated November 9, 1960, to Luxembourg from
Director. It contains the following statement: "Unless yo
advised to contrary by Altman, brief QJWIN on Dakar mission,
using notes left during Rabney visit...Please insure he
thoroughly rehearsed all details since we anticipate he will
go from Leopoldville to Dakar with no opportunity reviewing
briefing..."

6. Cable, November 11, 1960, to Director, from
Luxembourg. Paragraph 2 contains the following statement:
"QJWIN recommended two French contacts who agree undertake
unspecified job. Arrangement made for direct access without
QJWIN if Altman interested..."

7. Cable, dated November 12, 1960, to Director, from
Leopoldville. This cable requests the immediate departure
of QJWIN for Leopoldville, and contains the following state-
ment: "Local operational circumstances require immediate
expediting of QJWIN travel to Leopoldville."

8. The file contains several documents apparently
describing various Italians in the area of Trieste who have
the capability to break and enter and crack safes. They
appeared to be of questionable morality. Reports on the safe-
crackers were transmitted in a dispatch from the Chief of
Station in (Rome) to the Chief, KUDOVE/D. The names of the 36
safecrackers in question are (Sabatti), (Cuccagna), and (Bernardini).
15-9
06
०७

9. Cable, dated December 8, 1960, from Leopoldville to
the Director. It indicates that one purpose of QJWIN's
presence in Leopoldville is to recruit a major in the
"Yugoslavian air force, through framing him up in an illegal
smuggling transaction. This recruitment is apparently for
the purpose of collecting information from within the
Yugoslavian government.
NW 78141
Docld:32201331 Page 19
TOP SECRET
SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

SENSITIVE

4

10. Cable, dated December 14, 1960, from headquarters
to Leopoldville. The cable criticizes Leopoldville for using
QJWIN for the purpose of recruiting the Yugoslav) major, since
this was not