JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 09/02/94
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10237
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 04/29/75
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
HANDWRITTEN NOTES: TELEPHONE CALL WITH STURGIS ON 4-29-75.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : O
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/02/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
CONTAINED IN FILE ENTITLED, "STURGIS, FRANK" "O/R-I (OO)"
SANITIZED BY CIA.

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141
Docld:32201322 Page 1

5681.8263 TCW Sturgis 4-29-75

Barber's Station Chief in early 1961
was in Knowless, who was also
in Havana Station, where he was
Pro- Fidel. (So wartosche Stawisit Jin Havana)
Barber, Martinsen & Sturges were moled
in Comestic intell.
Bill Johnson had Vevey fighter plane

Hunt left Miami I wk bf Bay of Pigs,

Sturgis says a "CIA Agent is one who
has ak w/ CIA t is pd ley it.
He never wasa C/A agent.

He started getting involved in Culber
people in Miami in about 1945. Carles
Pris was ist forced out of Cuba by
Batista in about 1976. Sturgis unde
was married to Cuban woman & was
sither in exile or was visiting in Fla.

Carlos Marcello, Mofis Don From New And,
had trouble of Bobby Kennedy.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
16-8-94
lu
(1)(A) Kpizaprag

2/pr
NW 78141
Docld:32201322 Page 2

Marita Lorenz - mistress of....
Castro, Said recently to as
raporter that when the bot
came to 4. in 196000 so, the
first people the inet was
Sturgis & Howard theit.
Sturges denicolis,
that the person who was with
hine was al Roark
Jenis - not Hernt.

NW 78141
Docld:32201322 Page 3
