JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 09/02/94
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HPSCI
RECORD NUMBER : 135-10001-10238
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 04/22/75
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
HANDWRITTEN NOTES: TELEPHONE CALL WITH STURGIS ON 4-22-75.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS: O
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/02/94
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
CONTAINED IN FILE ENTITLED, "STURGIS, FRANK" "O/R-I (OO)"
SANITIZED BY CIA.

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141
Docld:32201323 Page 1

TOW Sturgis 4-22-75
Wants to correct something Waz
Park Woolen - Santiago de Cuba- Consul
God best Sturgis, didn't contact byom
It was Patterson, Called him Bill
Was C/A agent there, left C/A later
after getting to be Chief of Station
in Santiago. Sturgis was in touch w/ind
Wooler
Jock Stewart of Jom Knowles were in
Havana.

Has info re Miami people, possibly ind
some Americans of posso imel, some
people of past CIA contact, are planning to
go to Venezuela and to asspss. Henry Kissinger &
The Preas of Venes on Kissinger's forthcoming trip
Dr. de Cardenas - Satin Cem- Anti Comin.
Leaque may be involved

305-681-8263

2515 NW 122 St.
Miami, Fila.
324-3000
Called John Minty, at FBI & gave him
above imfort at 1:50 PM or called him,
bacs agam at 1:58 Pto give m
to his soey y or phones Sturgis.
Calling Sturgis leasts until he gets things
started cet his end,

Mr. Nasce of FBI called backs at 2:17 PM, asked
if Ok w/ me if they have their Miami Ofe
Contact St. Of of me..... He admin

Called Sturgis bocs; told him 781 wd.
be contacting him this PH.

NW 78141
Docld:32201323 Page 3
