Doc ID: 6878870
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/24/97
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10116
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA [R]
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/MXD/T1749-63: VENEZUELAN FOREIGN MINISTER BRINGING DOCUMENTARY
DATE : 12/31/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
VENEZUELA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA [R]
ORGINIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878870 Doc Ref ID: A4268751

TOP SECRET DINAR

Mexican MXDN WS 15608 3/0/MXD/T1749-63
IS 31 Dec 2025Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

VENEZUELAN FOREIGN MINISTER BRINGING DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE AGAINST
CUBA TO WASHINGTON.

FR Caracas: ALABARDA O. 30 Dec 63
TO Mexico: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 1084

Venezuelan Foreign Minister FALCON BRICENO left for Washington
yesterday, taking with him the documentation which the
Government of Venezuela will present to the OAS regarding the
accusation recently (B val made) against the regime of FIDEL CASTRO.

MS 1 CN ILC TI 30 Dec 63 17522

Mexican 3/6/MXD/T1749-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
