Doc ID: 6878890 Doc Ref ID: A4268700 SECRET MORAY DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
---
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10072
RECORDS SERIES:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF PLUS [R]
TITLE:
2X/0/CUY/T478-63: CUBA'S ANALYSIS OF FACTS AND POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
CUBA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: S
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/09/93
OPENING CRITERIA:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878890 Doc Ref ID: A4268700
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/CUY/T478-63
IS 24 Nov 21212 P
Dist: HCF Plus
ST 300

SECRET 0/27213-63
CUBA'S ANALYSIS OF FACTS AND POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES BELIEVED
NECESSARY

FR [Havana]: -- [23] Nov 63
TO [U] --
Msg Nr: --

[XM] therefore, because of the [XM] which occurred
yesterday in the United States and resulted in the assassination
of the President of that country [XM] of international policy,
that is why we believe we must make a calm and particularly
objective analysis of the facts and of their possible consequences.

The Government of the United States, both the previous
EISENHOWER Administration and the KENNEDY Administration, has not
practiced a precisely friendly policy toward us. The policy
of both administrations has been characterized by an aggressive,
GROUP 1 SECRET 1 of 2 PAGE(s)
PAGE
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC --
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 66 CN ILC TI 23 Nov 63 15522
Cuban CUOY WS 17265 2X/O/CUY/T478-63

0/27213-63
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878890 Doc Ref ID: A4268700
SECRET SABRE
2x/o/CUY/T478-63

SECRET 0/27213-63
hostile and implacable spirit toward our country.

Our country has been the victim of aggressions of an
economic type tending to cause the ruin of our economy and
hunger among our people. It has been the victim of attacks
of every kind which have caused bloodshed. Hundreds of our
compatriots have lost their lives, defending themselves against
the attacks of Yankee imperialism. And that is not all. [XM]

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
