Doc ID: 6879040 Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10360
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T2021-63 UN DISARMAMENT TALKS REPORTED [R]
DATE : 11/29/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879040 Doc Ref ID: A4269393

TOP SECRET DINAR

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 369 3/0/W/T2021-63
29 Nov 63

UN DISARMAMENT TALKS REPORTED

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN 22 Nov 63 1900
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Routine
Msg. Nr. 484

For RAPACKI

In accordance with your instructions in Nr. 12173ª LACHS continued talks
on disarmament with the Americans along these lines:

A. Inspection points plus threats is one of the possibilities.

B. Formal unilateral steps, actually simultaneous reductions by
both sides.

Talks with a representative of the Department of State: In recent talks
with GROMIKO, the USA proposed the destruction of a certain number of bombers
by both sides without inspection. GROMYKO did not turn down the proposal.
They are ready to expand the idea to include rocket launchers and other types
of weapons also without inspection, in order to comply with the reservations
of the USSR. He considers a formal agreement on future reductions or a freeze
too difficult to attain next year because of elections. A confidential agree-
ment is possible.

Information of KENNEDY's assassination was received during the discussion.
The reaction: Eliminates the possibility of any steps for elections and
freezes the situation.

a. See 3/0/W/T1689-63 LEWANDOWSKI

MS CN TI

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
