Doc ID: 6879033 Doc Ref IDRET MORAY DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10355
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE : 2X/0/VND/T51-63 CONDOLENCES ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT [R]
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1, X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879033 Doc Ref ID: A4269384

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/VND/T51-63
IS 23 Nov 2003 Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET 0/26557-63

CONDOLENCES ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT

FR Saigon: DUONG VAN MINH 23 Nov 63 1739
TO Washington: President --
LYNDON B, JOHNSON
Msg Nr: 716/MAE/CB

The sudden and tragic death of President JOHN F. KENNEDY
is an immense loss for the United States of America, the nations
of the free world, and all humanity, which mourns the passing
of this greathearted champion of liberty, justice, the
rapprochement of peoples, and peace. In its name, in the name
of the Revolutionary Council, and in my own name, I address to
Your Excellency our heartfelt condolences; and I beg you to
convey to Mrs. JACQUELINE KENNEDY the deeply felt homage and
the respectful sympathy of all my countrymen. In this hour of
trial, we retain intact our faith in the ideals common to your
people and mine, and we are convinced that the torch which
GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(3)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 27 CN ILC TI 23 Nov 63 10412

Vietnamese P/L [French] WS 31VXX- 2X/O/VND/T51-63
(South) 13163

0/26557-63

PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(S)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879033 Doc Ref ID: A4269384

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/VND/T51-63

SECRET 0/26557-63
President JOHN F. KENNEDY held so high and which passes to such
worthy and noble hands, will continue to illuminate the world.

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(S)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
