Doc ID: 6878872
Doc Ref ID: A4268688
MORAY
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10059
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
2X/0/CUD/T2421-63: OFFICIAL CUBAN STATEMENT ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
CUBA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA,
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET
MORAY
[R]

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID:-6878872
Doc Ref ID: SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2421-63
IS 24 Nov 17132 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET
0/27208-63
OFFICIAL CUBAN STATEMENT ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Havana: ROA 23 Nov 63
To Circular (Accra: Cuban Embassy)((A)) --
Msg Nr: 7452

Abide by the text of the statement of Ambassador LECHUGA
which is transcribed below:

In spite of the antagonism existing between the Government
of the United States and the Cuban Revolution, we have received
the news of the tragic death of President KENNEDY with deep
sorrow. All civilized men always grieve about such events as
this. Our delegation to the Organization of the United Nations
wishes to state that this is the feeling of the people and of
the Government of Cuba.

SECRET
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 36 CN ILC ΤΙ 24 Nov 63 02102

Cuban CUDY WS 17263 2X/O/CUD/T2421-63

0/27208-63
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR.MK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878872
Doc Ref ID: ASECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2421-63

SECRET
0/27208-63
Communicate this to the consulates.

((A)) This is a circular message sent also to the diplomatic
missions in Algiers, Athens, Bamako, Beirut, Belgrade,
Berlin, Brussels, Bucharest, Colombo, Copenhagen,
Djakarta, Geneva, The Hague, Hanoi, Helsinki, Karachi,
Moscow, New Delhi, Oslo, Paris, Paris (UNESCO), Prague,
Pyongyang, Rabat, Rome, Rome (FAO), Sofia, Tel Aviv,
Ulan Bator, Vatican City, and Vienna.

SECRET
PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(S)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
