Doc ID: 6878986
Doc: TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10312
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/IAD/T2314-63 INDONESIAN PRESIDENTIAL BODYGUARD OFFICIALS ON U.S. [R]
DATE : 12/26/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

-TOP SECRET UMBRA-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878986
Doc Ref ID: A4268843
TOP SECRET DINAR

Indonesian IADH-4AA WS 3-NYJ-397 3/0/IAD/T2314-63
IS 26 Dec 1847Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

INDONESIAN PRESIDENTIAL BODYGUARD OFFICIALS IN UNITED STATES
FR New York: INDONESIA 25 Nov 63
TO Djakarta: DEPARLU Immediate
Msg Nr: 397

[EXTRACT]((A))

For: Chief of Staff of TJAKRA BIRAWA Regiment.

From: Colonel SABUR.

No. 326.

1. We are in the United States.

2. Other than visits to the Secret Service, F.B.I., and
Fort Gordon, our group will study closely the facts and tactics
concerning the assassination of President KENNEDY.

3. This incident should be a valuable lesson, a warning, and
should cause all to increase vigilance.

((A)) Remainder of message irrelevant.

MS AUA-375 CN ILC TI 26 Nov 63 10302

Indonesian 3/0/IAD/T2314-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
-TOP SECRET DINAR-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
