Doc ID: 6878980 Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10293
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/ABD/T940-63 KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION: SAUDI REPORT FROM WASHINGTON [R]
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8
-TOP SECRET UMBRA-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878980 Doc Ref ID: A4268803
TOP SECRET DINAR

Saudi Arabian ABDB WS WA-11-36 3/O/ABD/T940-63
IS 23 Nov 17152 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION: SAUDI REPORT FROM WASHINGTON

FR Washington: NEJDIAH 22 Nov 63
TO Jidda: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 137

All the television and radio stations gave full coverage
to the assassination of President KENNEDY at noon today in
Dallas, Texas immediately after he was shot by an unknown person.
The motives which led to the perpetration of this deed are not
as yet known.

In accordance with the American constitution Mr. LYNDON
JOHNSON will assume the Presidency of the Republic.

The Dean of the diplomatic corps sent a joint telegram
of condolence on behalf of the diplomatic corps. We have also
sent telegrams of condolence to the new President, the Secretary
of State, President KENNEDY's father, wife and brothers.

This event has had a severe reaction among all American,
foreign, and UN circles as the television and radio stations
have reported.

Details [5 or 10 G/M]

MS 55 CN ILC TI 23 Nov 63 0844Z

Saudi Arabian 3/O/ABD/T940-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
