Doc ID: 6878970 Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10296
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/Z-BVD/T100-63 CONSULTATION REQUESTED REGARDING PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S [R]
DATE : 11/27/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878970 Doc Ref ID: A4268811
**********************************TOP SECRET DINAR**********************************
******************NO FOREIGN DISSEM*******************
Bolivian BVDE-1 WS 3449 3/O/Z-BVD/T100-63 ISHTAR
IS 27 Nov 2105Z P
Dist: HCF
CONSULTATION REQUESTED REGARDING PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION

FR La Paz: Foreign Ministry 23 Nov 63
TO Circular [Mexico City: Embassy]((A)) --
Msg Nr: CEL 33

Please consult as to what the government to which you are
accredited will do if it is confirmed that the assassin of
the President is [1 gr U] Cuba.

[1 gr U] (B val flash).((B))

((A)) Sent also to Rio de Janeiro.
((B)) See 3/O/BVD/T220-63.

MS 991P CN ILC TI --
Bolivian 3/O/Z-BVD/T100-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
