JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 10/16/95
Page: 1

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10218

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM : NSA/OFC OF POLICY
TO: MARK ALLEN

TITLE :
INFO ON JFK ASSASSINATION INVESTIGATION

DATE : 03/16/81
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
INVESTIGATION INTO JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : LETTER
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS: 0
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

2025 Release under the President
John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78334 Docld:34630151 Page 1

Serial: N9022

Mr. Hark Allen
F. 0. Box 9032
Washington, DC 20003

Dear Mr. Allen:

This responds to your letter of 12 January 1901 in which you request all
correspondence or records of any communication between this Agency and the
U. S. House Select Committee on Assassinations concerning the Committee's
investigation into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Your request has been processed under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552,
the Freedom of Information Act. Information which is releasable is enclosed.

National Security Agency/Central Security Service (NSA/CSS) functions,
activities, and internal organizational designators, as well as titles and
names of NSA/CSS employees, have been deleted from the enclosures. These
deletions have been made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3), in conjunction with
50 U.S.C. 402 note (Public Law 86-36). Section 6 of Public Law 86-36 provides
that no law shall be construed to require the disclosure of the organization.
or any function of the NSA, of any information with respect to the activities
thereof, or of the names, titles, salaries, or number of persons employed by
the Agency.

Other items have been deleted from the enclosures pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
552(b)(6), as their disclosure would cause an unwarranted invasion of the
personal privacy of the individuas concerned.

The remaining items have been deleted because they are classified and
therefore exempt from access or release pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1), which
provides that the Freedom of Information Act does not apply to matters that
are specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order
to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and
are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order. The infor-
mation is currently and properly classified in accordance with the criteria
for classification in Section 1-3 of Executive Order 12065, and paragraph
2-202 of Department of Defense Regulation 5200.1-R. The information has been
reviewed for possible declassification or downgrading according to the provisions
of Sections 3-3, 3-4, and 3-6 of Executive Order 12065 and Chapter III of
DoD Regulation 5200.1-R and found to be properly excluded from declassification
or downgrading.

NW 78334 Docld:34630151 Page 2

Serial: N9022

In addition, this Agency is authorized by law to protect certain
information concerning its activities. Title 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3), exempts
matters that are specifically exempted from disclosure by statute. The
applicable statutes in this case are 18 U.S.C. 798, 50 U.S.C. 402 note
(Public Law 86-36), and 50 U.S.C. 403(d) (3). DoD Directive 5400.7, Sections
III and VI.C.3, specifically recognizes this exemption.

As the deleted items constitute a partial denial of your request, you
are hereby advised of this Agency's appeal procedures.

Any person denied access to records, or parts thereof, may, within 30
days after notification of the denial, file an appeal to the NSA/CSS Freedom
of Information Act Appeal Authority. The appeal shall be in writing addressed
to the NSA/CSS FOLA Appeal Authority, National Security Agency, Fort George
G. Meade, MD 20755. The appeal shall reference the initial denial of access
and shall contain, in sufficient detail and particularity, the grounds upon
which the requester believes release of the information is required. The
NSA/CSS Appeal Authority shall respond to the appeal within 20 working days
after receipt.

Please be advised that records originated by the Congress of the United
States are not subject to the Freedom of Information Act.

Sincerely,

EUGENE F. YEATES
Chief, Office of Policy

Encls:
a/s

cc: L221 (less encls)
U
Q32 RF (less encls)
LAO

CONCUR: U

M/R: Classified portions of the records were bracketed by M. Levin and P. Dinwoodie
on 26 Feb 1981.

L. Figallo, Q324, 3085s, 9 March 1981, dd

NW 78334 Docld:34630151 Page 3
