Doc ID: 6878883
DooRRET SPOKE
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10056
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
SECTION III/8 - ALERT IN EASTERN NAVAL DISTRICT RELAXED
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
CUBA, MILITARY ACTIVITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION-

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

[R]

[R]
SECRET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
TOP SECRET DINAR
0600 22 November - 0600 23 November 1963	Capt Quirze
Kr Guldseth
30.	CATEOORY 16 - Sor Element. Probably Controls Unidentified Hungarian
Radio Communications Groups
Further analysis of communications procedure indicates that an element of
the SGF, Hungary, probably controls the unidentified Hun, arian radio communi-
cations group observed since approximately 0900, 21 Nov 63.
Comment: Although the exact simificance of this activity cannot be determined
at this time, it may represent a joint SGF/Hungarian communications exercise
since practice massajos ars being passed 22 Nov, 21032, D/Poli).
(USH 89, 2/M2/URW/R2-63, 2220352) (TSD) (LONGUS)

31.	CATEGORY 11 - OSFO FTA:
Between 06542 and 13002, 22 Nov a FM involving elements of at least
battalion echelon was noted on Vur voice radio communications facilities,
Hention was made of repelling enemy attacks and destroying تنش رسانه.
Also noted was montion of a gas attack and the substituting of antire tank or
Carment: This activity was intercepted by four US sites, two adiacent to the
Taira Shock Army area, one in Berlin and another in Southarn Carmany. At pres
the size and scope of this activity or the unite participating cannot be determi
(USH 3, 21/R3/RUM/1029-63, 2303106) (TSD) (LAICUS)

32.	SECTION III/8 - Cuben Hilitary Alert: Addendim to #23, this file.
1.	In a message originated by Sancs at 2302227 and relayed by Havens,
Punta Maisi was requested to deny access to the coastal observation post wتنف
Monday, 25 Nor dre to the wrata of alert.
2.	At 2223202, a message passed between two unidentified anita on VH
...munications which normally link First Army F2, Santiago with Quartan
City stated: "Inform the chief that by orders of Di (unit commander) here,
all of them, all of the points were put on alert."
The reason for the alert was not mentioned.
(1)(USN 834, 2/05/CH/1667-63, 230702) (TSD)
(2)(352 835, 2/181/001/R367-63, 2302172) (150)

33.	SECTICI Chicon Commentary on Soviet Letter:
Peiping's fifth commentary upon the July July 4 CFSU opon letter, released lor
arguss in 18,000 well-chosen Chinese charecters that Soviet leeders are an dict
as capitulationist, and as anti-artist-Leninist on the issue of war and peace
as they are on other cardinal issues under dispute which were analyzed
Installmente.
Comment:
Regardless of all other major consideretiors, such current I session,
Paiping's polemiczi machinery grinds inexorably on. The latest item, which
caps a year-long torrent of words against Dhrushcher and the CPSU, conveye
the impression of increasing unreality and of haseling over theological points
which caly would intarest over theologians...
Notwithstanding some characteristically adroit sarcasa addressed at
Khrushchey, the article as a whole is defensive in tese and reveals the diff
of defending Hao's pronouncer sute against the Soviet attech other than by
interpreting and distorting their original sense or by merely relating t
holy writ, as if their very invocation would quail further argscut...
(NCCISUL Hong Kong 942, 19110) (0)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE
ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
TOP SECRET DINAR
TOP SECRET DINAR
ra Chepin
Sp.. Chatberiain
0000 23 ίου 1963
0600 22 Nov
21.	CONTINUED: Flights to North Pole 12 were undertaken earlier than those
to North Pole 10 probably because the airstrip was ready sooner. On 17
October, personnel responsible for directing flights, arrived at Worth Pole
12 aboard LI-2 04205. On 19 October it was reported that the airstrip
Deasured 2952 X 164 feet and was ready to receive a trial flight by an IL-14
in the daytime. On 20 October two IL-li's began resupply operations from
Mys Shmidta and Somnitelnaya. Supply flights to North Pole 10 by LI-2 04205
commenced on 20 October. On 25 October, IL-lis were scheduled to fly there from
Mys Kozisty and Cheluskin. It appears, judging from the usage of cover
numbers, that the drift stations each have two airstrips, and that to date,
all are capable of taking IL-l aircraft.
In September the Soviets reported that preparation of an airstrip at
orth Pole 10 capable of taking heavy aircraft wasto be undertaken. The
is normally taken to mean an A-12
description "heavy aircraft
type, but it is evident, to mate at least, that no such aircraft has
visited the drift station. During the past 10 days, five PA IL-LAS
have been jerrying supplies to the ice islands at a very higi: rate.
The transports carried fuel, food, instruments and persoanel to worth
Pole 10 from Mys Chelyaskin and to North Pole 12 from K.3 Sumidts. JPA
support of the fall high latitude expedition exceeds that of any previous
expedition. On 18 November the location of the orift stations were:
North Pole 10, 842-1.258 and worth Poie 12, 7835-174..
(AF..SOP, 63-229-00, 2220202 liov) (1)

22.	SECTION 111/8 - Cuban - New Commander for Siguanoa An Site:
10 September 1953: During a conversation between SAM Regimental
Headquarters at Santiago de las Vegas and the Siguanea Ari site it was
nd that a new commander for the Siquanca SAM site had arrived from the
Soviet Union. Past in ercepts of SAM communications have indicated
the appointment of new commanders at several Sam sites. In the majority of
these cases the now commanders were previously acting is Chief of staff
at another site. The 10 September 1963 activity, represents the initial
reflection in comint of a new arrival in Cuba being directl. appointed as
the commander of a Soviet SA battalion in Cuba.
(DIRISA, 2/0/CURUK/2210-63, 2217582 Nov) (TSD)

23.	SECTION 11/8 - Cuban Addendum on Fastern Naval District:
In a circular essa passed at 2220442, Ha, Eastern Naval District,
Ranes, instructed naval posts at ducvitas, Puerto Padre, Punta Maisi
and Kanati to have all personnel ready to repel aggression.
(US 83, 2/CS//3665-63, 230.3% Nov) TSD)

24.	SECTION JII/8 - Status of Cuban/Soviet Communications as of 22 Hov:
A new radar observati n post has been completed and is in operation
at Punta Mulas, Eastern Naval District. Intercept reveals that this new
post entered communications within the Eastern Naval District net en 19
November. The commencement of operations was in honor of Captain Jomarzon,
who was possibly the officer in charge of construction at Punta mulas
prior to nis death while corving as commanding officer of the Southern
Sector of the kestern Naval District.
CONTINUED OVER
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE
ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
TOP SECRET DINAR
i
TOP SECALE DINAR
0500 25 November 1963 - 0500 26 November 1963	LTJG Taylor
Sec Hamilton
lin
11.	SECTION III/SProbable Reference.... ......continuation of:
and move at 14007. The Regimental icadquarters was then informed by a speaker
at the site that he (the speaker at the site) was going to proceed to the
Nuevitas SAM Site to check out the equipment. This person is believed to be
associated with the SAE Support Facility at Vicotria de Las Tunas and was
probably ning technical checks of equipment at the Camaguey and Nuevitas
SAM Sites prior to the movement of times aites.
Since the Camaguey site was ordered to practice only three hours prior
to the scheduled time of movement of the site the move may be a mobility
exercise rather than abandonment of the site.
(DIRNSA 2/0/CURUK/2211-63, 2518002 Nov)(TSD)

12.	CATEOORY 13 - Fast Germany: Situation Report No. 112 - Political/Economic:
SED Communications on 22 Novesbar revealed that press, radio and television
had been advised by the Party Agitation Commission in Berlin to "take note
of a report which it plicated Fascist circles in the assassination of President
Kennedy.
Further to para. 2 of 2/AGC/C246) regarding the murder of one and possible
two East German Taxi-drivers by Soviet Citizens in Dresden, a Berlin Party
official stated on 22 November that further locel discussions on the matter
were undesirable since" ((B Percent the Soviets could easily get wind of it))".
A new Church Law ((Amtszuchtsgesetz)) approval at a recent meeting of the
Hecklenburger Landes Synce ((probably the Synod of the Hecklenburger State
Church)) which ended on 9th November, has caused considerable alarm among
party members, wewe main aim of which is apparently to "remove"
clergymen branded as "progressives" ((a probable reference to those who voted
in the recent election)), was approved despite the intervention of the Bishop,
who forbade it, and of the party which enlisted at least 15 Clergymen to pos0
strong objections, while the party has branded the low as invalid, because it
is concormed with the whole of Germany whereas there are two separate Germas
states. Full reasons for refutation are to be worked out in detail ister.
(OCHO 2/ACC/C2480, 2516442 Nov) (TSD)

13.	SECTION III/8 - Alert in Bestam Kavel District Relaxed, 23 November:
As a result of the death of President Kennedy, the Eastern Naval District
of Cuba was placed on an alert on 20442 ca 22 November by Banes, Headquarters
for that District, At 20372 on 23 November, the alert was relaxed a certain
degree by Banes; instructions were passed to Santiago de Cuba, a subordinate,
to give leave to 25 percent of their personnel. For the 23rd and 4th and that
furtiver orders would be forthcoming on 25 November 1963.
COMENT: The authorisation to grant leave to personnel is an indication that
the alert is somewhat relaxed and the note that further instructions would be
issued on Monday, 25 November indicates that a nenurgent view has been adopted
for the situation by Cuban Naval authorities in the Sastern Naval District.
(DIFINSA 2/0.CUN/R196-63, 2518152 Nov)(TSD)
TOP SON
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
TOP SECRET DINAR
TOP SECRET DINAR
0600 26 November 1963 - 0600 27 November 1963	SFC Hamilton
YNl Gwin
30.	SECTIα: 111/2 Unidentified Regiments.. ......continuation of:
has bean noted since. The number "983" which receeds the "(117th Regiment)" is
perhaps this Regiment's Army Unit Number. The referenced placenames suggest that
these unidentified units may be located in the vicinityor Sinanju and Cho'ngju.
The 53rd rear hospital, according to a collateral document dated 1 July 1963,
is located at BV 6958.
US 31, 3/31/6/46-63, 2617442 Nov) (TSC)

31.	SECTION III/6 - Regarding Soviet Activities on Iranian Bordert.
At 1000 hours on 23 October, several Russian Soldiers were engaged in
construction in the vicinity of Kandgareh, near the Soviet Observation Post, and
a truck was transporting building materials from the Qazkan (repeated as Qafkan)
post to t'ils region.
At 1000 hours that same day Russians were marking out furrows and constructing
new furrows at the Qushvar post.
At 1500 hours on 23 October, a Russian Jeep came down alongside the border
from the Qushvar Post and stopped for a few minutes at Qalich Kallu (repeated as
Malich Kalu), where the Russians have underground rooms, and then it returned.
Eskandar Chupan said in the presence of Chanzad ((40)) Chupan in (43) that
on 19 October 11 Russian Soldiers from the Qukai Post, accompanied by a guide,
inspected the border.
(DIRNSA 3/0/IRI/T4098-63, 2620092 Nov) (TSD)

32.	SEXION III/3 - Alert in Oriente Province Balieved to be Terminated: (see
Iten #13, wal's 25/26 November):
The alert in Oriente Province is believed to be terminated. The alert, ap-
parently prompted by President Kennedy's death on 22 November, was possibly pre-
scheduled to terminate on 1:5 November. There have been two orders which suggest
that the alert was destined to be concluded on 25 November: They ares
1)	Access to the coastal observation post at Punta Maisi (20-15 74-09W) was
restricted until 25 November because of the alert.
2)	Subordinates of Banes, Headquarters Eastern Naval District, were to receive
further orders on the 25th, presumably concerning their alert status; no such orders
have been noted in communications.
There have been no further references in intercepted communications to the
alert since 02222 on 23 November.
It is possible that the restricted access to the observation post at Punta
laisi extends to other observation posts in Orienta Province such as reported on
23 November when First Army Coastal Observation Posts were placed in alert status,
and that the restriction was to be lifted ca 25 November by all those posts.
Further indications that the alert was terminated is the fact that the Cuban
Navy was engaged in an island-wide communications exercice on 25 November. It is
considered unlikely that such an exercise would be conducted under alert conditions,
There have been no further references to the alert status of the (D Percent
Santiago de Cuba) units which was first observed on 23 November. All CRAF and
Soviet Forces Cuba Communications appear to be normal during this period,
22 - 26 November 1963.
(DIRUSA 2/0/CW/R53-63, 2620192 Nov) (TSD)
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
TOP SECRET DINAR
