JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
Doc ID: 6878995
Doc Ref ID: A4269391
DATE: 01/26/98
PAGE: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10159

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
FROM: HOWARD LIEBENGOOD
TO: NSA, LAO

TITLE :
REQUEST OF INFO RE MR. ANTONIO VECIANA

DATE: 12/20/76
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :
THE PLAN OF EXECUTION OF VECIANA & ESTEVEZ
REQUEST FOR INFO ON MR. ANTONIO VECIANA
VECIANA'S NAME CAME UP AT FBI WHEN KENNEDY WAS ASSASSINATED

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM,LETTERS
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878995
Ref ID: A4269391

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 30 December 1976

SUBJECT: SSCI Request for Document re Antonio Veciana

In response to the inclosed 20 December request from
the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, on this date
I showed the NSA product on Antonio Veciana, 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
dated 29 November 1962, to SSCI staffers Tom Moore and Howard
Liebengood. They were quite interested in this message and
a reference to "Serafin." They indicated that the Committee
would request a review of all Cuban material for the period
1961-1965.

JOHN C. WOBENSMITH
Legislative Affairs
LAO
3 Incls:
1. SSCI 1tr dtd 20 Dec 76
2. Product
3. Backup

Classified by Dem M
Pxoript from (NSA/CSOM 188-2)
2
Doclacoity Upon Netfatton by the Oririnator

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SENSITIVE

ككاملة VEICAL UNLI
ப
SCI Sub-
Resineda

Chief, Congressional Activities
Doc ID: 6878995
c Ref ID: A4269391.

22 December 1976

Mr. Burke,

Attached is a request from the SSCI.
I have talked to Fred Cassedy at the FBI
and he says that the Committee is looking
into the Kennedy assassination and that
the SSC provided Veciana's name.

I intend to contact Howard Liebengood
next week and will probably arrange for
the SSCI to review the document out here
at that time.

Kila
John

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Inel 3
SSCI Subs-
Veciana

Doc ID: 6878995
c Ref ID: A4269391

NOTE: In response to the United States Senate Select
Committee (SSC) On Intelligence request #5724 re Antonio
Veciana, the attached document has been withheld from
SSC. (access only)

Please advise how, if at all, NSA desires this
document to be described to the SSC so that SSC may then
obtain its own clearance from NSA for access to the
document.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878995
Ref ID: A4269391

TOP SECRET DINAR

US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY
TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION
Cuban CUIB-1 WS 36 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
IS 29 Nov 62 P
FR [U]
TO (Puerto Rico): 7 (SERAFIN] 2 28 Nov 62
Msg Nr: (M] --

[XM] cautiousness and equanimity which you possess. The
refinery plan (1 wd G)((A)) be carried out after completing the
recruiting task and when the conditions exist.

MS 84 FR -- CN CUIS JØØØ1
ΤΙ 28 Nov 62 12122 TO -- 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

TOP SECRET DINAL

BUREAU SOURCE 6 INDEXED 64-330-210

NOT RECORDED
MAR 26 1903

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878995
c Ref ID: A4269391

SECRET DINAR

Cuban 3/O/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

The plan for the execution of VECIANA ((B)) and ESTEVEZ((C))
is less important than the other. What information (do you have
about) plan PO ALPHA?

Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of
action against VECIANA.

Listen tomorrow to the transmissions about the concrete
objectives. End of message.

MIKE 18 November (XG)

((A)) C percent can.
((B)) ANTONIO VECIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman for ALPHA 66.
((C)) Probably GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in Puerto Rico and
a member of the coordinating committee of Cuban democratic
organizations in exile.

TIONAL SECURITY AGENCY -2-

INDEXED TOP SECRET DINA

BUREAU SOURCE 6 164-330-210--1

NOT RECORDED
MAR 26 1963

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc İD: 6878995
DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII, CHAIRMAN
HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN., VICE CHAIRMAN

BIRCH BAYH, IND.
ADLAI E. STEVENSON, JR., ILL.
WILLIAM D. HATHAWAY, MAINE
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR., DEL.
ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.
GARY HART, COLO.
c Ref ID: A4269391
CLIFFORD P. CASE, N.J.
STROM THURMOND, S.C.
MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG.
BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
ROBERT T. STAFFORD, VT.
JAKE GARN, UTAH

MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT., EX OFFICIO
HUGH SCOTT, PA., EX OFFICIO

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
HOWARD S. LIEBENGOOD, MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR
MICHAEL J. MADIGAN, MINORITY COUNSEL
United States Senate
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 400, 94TH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

SENSITIVE
December 20, 1976

IN REPLY PLEASE
REFER TO R# 5900

Mr. Frank Foster
Legislative Affairs Office
National Security Agency
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Re: Document Request

Dear Frank:

We understand that you have been apprised of the
Select Committee's interest in an NSA document dated
29 November 1962 regarding a subject of interest to
the Committee, Mr. Antonio Veciana. If you would be
kind enough to contact me at an early convenient date
to discuss Committee access to such a document we
would be most appreciative.

Thank you for your ongoing assistance to the
Committee.

Sincerely,

Howard Beebengooв
Howard S. Liebengood
Minority Staff Director

HSL:mlh

SENSITIVE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
