Doc ID: 6879011 Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA Date: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10331
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/KOD/T1408-63 ROK FOREIGN MINISTER ASKED TO JOIN ROK PRIME MINISTER [R]
DATE : 11/24/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6879011 Doc Ref ID: A4269353
TOP SECRET DINAR

Korean KODY WS 311-SNY-54 3/0/KOD/T1408-63
(South) IS 24 Nov 17252 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300

ROK FOREIGN MINISTER ASKED TO JOIN ROK PRIME MINISTER IN WASHINGTON
FOR FUNERAL

FR Seoul: Vice Foreign Minister 23 Nov 63 1300Z
TO New York: Foreign Minister Urgent
(through the Mission to the UN)
Msg Nr:
--

It has been decided to send a special group to the funeral
of the late President KENNEDY. Prime Minister KIM is scheduled
to arrive in Washington on UA 758 at 0005 hours,
25 November, together with Protocol Chief CHO'NG TO SUN.
We have instructions from the Prime Minister to try to have you
attend this funeral with him, so try to arrive in Washington by
24 November.

✓
MS -- CN ILC TI -- 3/O/KOD/T1408-63
Korean (South)

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
