Doc ID: 6878898  TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 03/26/97
                                                                       PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10077

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCO PLUS [R]
TITLE :
3/O/MINT-QOU/T1785-63: PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION A ZIONIST [R]
DATE : 12/05/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
UNITED NATIONS, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
PALESTINIANS, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878898 Doc Ref ID: A4268705...

TOP SECRET DINAR
MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED WITHOUT PRIOR NSA APPROVAL

UN JJDY WS 7114 3/O/MINT-QOU/T1785-63
                                                                       IS 2 Dec 63 P
                                                                       Dist: HCO Plus

PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION A ZIONIST CONSPIRACY

FR Doha: 25 Nov 63
TO New York: Mr. AHMAD AL-SHOKAIRI,
c/o Mr. U THANT
Msg Nr:

The assassination of the great President KENNEDY was a shock
to Palestinians. Please convey our sincere sympathy to the KENNEDY
family and to the people of the United States.

Behind the mysterious crime is a carefully plotted Zionist
conspiracy. Review of the secret and overt Zionist criminal conspira-
cies against Lord MOWEEN BERNANDOTTE, the Egyptian and German
scientists, as well as the terrorist method adopted in kidnaping
EICHMAN and many others, provides the evidence to question the
position of their secret organizations. The late President was likely
to win the coming presidency elections without supplicating the
Zionist sympathy or seeking the Jews votes. Aware of the fact that
their influence and power in the United States are based upon the
Jews votes, the Zionists murdered the courageous President who was
about to destroy that legend of theirs. His assassination is a warning
to the rest of the honorable leaders.

Reveal their conspiracy to the supreme judgement of the world.
Be careful, you are the hope of the Palestinians.

Palestinians.

MS 974 TI

UN 3/O/MINT-QOU/T1785-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
