Doc ID: 6878906
DATOR SECERT UMBRAE:03/24/97
Doc
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10102
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T2020-63: DISCUSSION OF KENNEDY'S DEATH AND ITS IMPACT ON US [R]
DATE: 11/29/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
POLAND, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878906
Doc Ref ID: A4268736

TOP SECRET DINAR
HANO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION ATION***
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 375 3/0/W/T2020-63
29 Nov 63

DISCUSSION OF KENNEDY'S DEATH AND ITS IMPACT ON US POLICY

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN 25 Nov 63 1930
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Urgent
Msg. Nr. 488

For WINIEWICZ

Our Nr. 486.a

1. The statement by the Texas state authorities that the slaying of
OSWALD closes the investigation of the KENNEDY assassination brought on public
reactions of doubt by some segments of the information media (commentators and
journalists) of the intentions of the Dallas police who conducted the investi-
gation. This in turn facilitated the decision of the federal authorities to
step into the investigation immediately. R. KENNEDY's hand can also be seen
in this. Therefore, a struggle between the right and groups close to KENNEDY
will continue over the political implications of the attempt. It must be
expected that in the near future it will pass to more basic matters of foreign
and internal policies of the new president. Although the right was not success-
ful, so far, in obtaining a high degree of anti-communist tension in the
community, and force, in this way, JOHNSON to immediately withdraw from
KENNEDY's line, undoubtedly the reaction expanded its influences. Its repre-
sentatives in Congress, HICKENLOOPER. for example, began an open attack against
KENNEDY's policy of seeking agreements with the Soviet Union, emphasizing with
this the hope that JOHNSON will not be such an "inexperienced" politician.

2. In the UN great importance is attached to JOHNSON's talks with
MIKOYAN, DE GAULLE and ERHARD (the level and number of the FRG delegation
attached special attention). The Western delegations of Europeans and Scandi-
navians, with whom we talked, avoided any speculation whatsoever as to the
result of the talks.

Polish 3/0/W/T2020-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878906
Doc Ref ID: A4268736
**

Polish
TOP SECRET DINAR-
NOTFOREIGN DISSEMINATION******
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
3/0/W/T2020-63
3. Attention was directed to the fact that only Poland and the USSR
sent a high-level delegation (the remaining countries of the People's Democ-
racies sent the chiefs of the delegations of the UN Session). At the airport
in New York Ambassador YOST (one of the two deputies of STEVENSON, who went to
Washington alone) greeted them, thanking them officially for the trip. The
Press was very courteous.

a. See 3/0/W/T1945-63.

MS CN 2- TI
LEWANDOWSKI

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
