Doc ID:-6878991 Doc REIO DA
TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10318
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/ITD/T3581-63 SYRIA MOURNS DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY [R]
DATE: 12/04/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---
Doc ID: 6878991 Doc Ref ID: A4268854

TOP SECRET DINAR

Italian ITDO WS 30711 3/0/ITD/T3581-63
IS 04 Dec 1845Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SYRIA MOURNS DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Damascus: PERRONE CAPANO 23 Nov 63
TO Rome: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 409

The tragic death of President KENNEDY caused surprise and
(B val regret) also in Syria--although it has always been cool
in its relationas with Washington. The event, which was
[1 gr M] quickly here, was given (B val extensive) coverage
by television and the press and has given rise to an official
expression of condolence.

MS UKA-175 CN ILC TI --
✓
Italian 3/0/ITD/T3581-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
