Doc ID: 6878945
---
Doe RefSSICCOLETTMORY
DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10285
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CED/T02-64 CAMBODIAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS EXPLAINED TO CAMBODIAN AM [R]
DATE: 01/01/64
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8
SECRET MORAY-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc Ref ID: A4268790.
10285
SECRET SABRE-
2X/O/CED/T02-64
IS Ø15Jan 14322 P
Dist: HCF

SECRETA
0/6052-64
CAMBODIAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS EXPLAINED TO
CAMBODIAN AMBASSADOR IN INDIA

FR
Phnom Penh:
MINAFERES
1 Jan 64 1224
TO
New Delhi:
ΑΜΒΑΚΗMER
558/DGP

Please refute the following: 1) American aid is dangerous
because it is conditional. Please read His Royal Highness' articles
published in the Nationalist [Nyeak Cheat Niyum] on 1 and 8 December
1963. American-Cambodian relations have deteriorated because of
the injustice of the American Administration, aggravated by the
accusation against Cambodia following the death of President KENNEDY
and by the American refusal to guarantee Cambodian neutrality and
integrity. 2) The closing of the Cambodian Embassy in London is not
a political measure but an economic one. Relations between our two
countries will continue and the British Ambassador in Phnom Penh
has been so informed.

GROUP 1
SECRETA
PAGE
of
1
PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS
57
CN ILC
TI 1 Jan 64 15302
Cambodian
P/L
[French]
WS 31-CXX-0164
2X/O/CED/TØ2-64

0/6052-64
PAGE 1 of
1
PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
