Doc ID: 6879048 Doc-TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10363
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/Z-GHD/T73-64 UGANDA OFFICIAL GIVES HIS VERSION OF GOUP D-ETAT IN Z [R]
DATE : 01/21/64
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879048 Doc Ref ID: A4269396 AcesN# 453592.
TOP SECRET DINAR

NOT TO BE REPRODUCED IN ANY FORM WITHOUT
PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THE RELEAS ING
AUTHORITY OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
************NO FOREIGN DISSEM*************

Ghanaian GHDY WS 72 3/O/Z-GHD/T73-64
IS 21 Jan 1809Z P
Dist: HCF
UGANDA OFFICIAL GIVES HIS VERSION OF COUP D'ÉTAT IN ZANZIBAR

FR Kampala: GHANACOM 17 Jan 64
TO Accra: AFRISEC Immediate
Msg Nr: UG/24

From BUSUMTWI-SAM for Osagyefo, the President, repeated
to FOREIGN, Press Accra.

The following statement of Zanzibar coup d'état has just
been issued by the Uganda Minister of Information, Broadcasting
and Tourism:

"Who deposed the Sultan of Zanzibar? Many people in East
Africa have reacted to the revolution in Zanzibar where the
government has been overthrown and the Sultan deposed. They,
have now formed their own opinions as to whether the coup d'etat
was good or bad. But unfortunately not much attention has been
paid to the methods or the means used to bring about the
revolution. But for the sake of record and history, it is
good to try to establish who was responsible for the overthrow-
ing of the government and setting up a new one; future generations
would benefit by such an exercise, as with the assassination of
President KENNEDY of America, the name of Cubans and Communists
has been drawn in by the western press reporters. Is it true
that the Cubans organized the coup or not? What would motivate
Cuba to do so? Has Cuba any interest in the islands, if so, what
are they? When I went for the Zanzibar Independence Celebration,
I met Cuban representatives in Zanzibar. They had been invited by
Ghanaian 3/O/Z-GHD/T73-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879048 Doc Ref ID: A4269396
TOP SECRET DINAR

NOT TO BE REPRODUCED IN ANY FORM WITHOUT
PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THE RELEAS ING
AUTHORITY OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
************NO FOREIGN DISSEM*************

Ghanaian 3/O/Z-GHD/T73-64
the government which has been overthrown now, which meant that
the government was friendly to them. But it was there on
10 December 1963, at the Palace of the Sultan in front of which
lay the ship SALIFKALIF, which has carried the Sultan away,
that a top ranking British officer who was to leave Zanzibar
the following day after many years of service there, told me
that he was sorry, only for one thing, namely, that independence
of Zanzibar had come before the formation of the East African
Federation, because he thought Zanzibar might become a Cuba to
the East African mainland. Now how could Cuba overthrow another
Cuba? Cuba being so far away from Zanzibar, how would the Cubans
get into Zanzibar and by which ship? The truth is that the former
government was a socialist government which was friendly to
Cairo, Indonesia and Cuba. The following points are of prime
importance: The British Commissioner of Police, Mr. SULLIVAN,
was not attacked in spite of the fact that he was in charge of
the only armed force in the country. The Sultanes Palace was
not attacked immediately-unlike in the Russian Revolution. Only
Indians were in fact reported to have been captured and imprisoned
although the British also owned property on the island. The
British and Americans were reported quite safe in the European
club. The American Project Mercury, worth [4 gr G) million,
was never attacked although it is ironical that the Sultan
should now feel that he would be safe in Dar-es-Salaam where
Mr. BABU, who is now the Foreign Minister, and most probably
Mr. KARUME were, at the beginning of the revolution and from
where, unlike other people they could leave for Zanzibar during
the revolution, without any apparent difficulty. The former
government asked for assistance, but the new government asked
Tanganyika for medical assistance. Mr. KISASA was immediately
appointed by the revolutionary council, to take over the key and
most strategic position of Commissioner of Police, a sign of
great confidence."
MS 4 CN ZGDB 50101 TI 17 Jan 64 1440Z
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
***
