Doc ID: 6878893
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10074
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/X/T84-63: AMERICAN AMBASSADOR BELIEVES RUSSIA AND CUBA INVOLVED [R]
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
TURKEY, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAIN SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878893
Doc Ref ID: A4268702
TOP SECRET DINAR
******NO FOREIGN DISSEM****
XRAY HANDLING REQUIRED
**************
Turkish TUDN WS N-9004 3/0/X/T84-63
IS 25 Nov 18392 P
Dist: HCF

AMERICAN AMBASSADOR BELIEVES RUSSIA AND CUBA INVOLVED IN
KENNEDY'S DEATH

FR Khartoum: Embassy 24 Nov 63
TO Ankara: Foreign Ministry Normal
Msg Nr: --

30.

After signing the register which is open in the American
Embassy on the occasion of the death of KENNEDY, I saw the
Ambassador. He is of the opinion that Russia and Cuba had
a finger in the assassination.

MS 36 CN TUDB 00117 TI 24 Nov 63 09502

Turkish 3/0/X/T84-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
