Doc ID: 6879050 Doc Ref

SECRET MORAY
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA DATE: 10/09/98
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10301 PAGE: 1
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CUD/T2609-63 CUBAN AMBASSADOR REPORTS JAPANESE DEMONSTRATION OF K [R]
DATE : 12/19/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879050 Doc Ref ID: A4268825
SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2609-63
IS 19 Dec 14132 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET
0/27988-63

CUBAN AMBASSADOR REPORTS JAPANESE DEMONSTRATION ON KENNEDY'S
ASSASSINATION

FR Tokyo: LEON 29 Nov 63
TO Havana: Foreign Ministry Very Urgent
Msg Nr: 186

The police department informed us that a group of ultra
rightists were organizing a meeting and demonstration at this
embassy to deliver a so called "Note of Protest" to Cuba
accusing the Cuban Revolution of instigating the assassination
of KENNEDY.

They likewise placed (B val armored cars) to prevent
attack and a police guard at the residence and the chancery.

We stated that we would not permit entrance to the embassy
to any representative of the reactionaries, nor accept any note,
GROUP 1 PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS UKF-108 CN ILC TI --
Cuban CUDY WS 17840 2X/O/CUD/T2609-63

0/27988-63
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879050 Doc Ref ID: A4268825
SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CUD/T2609-63

SECRET
0/27988-63
since Cuba estimates, and it is so evident, that the
assassination was perpetrated by ultrarightist and reactionary
intellectuals. This was transmitted by telephone to the Protocol
Directorate of the Japanese Foreign Ministry.

The demonstration has dispersed now with a possibility of
returning, since they want to deliver the note in any case.

We are keeping posted and and will inform you of events.((A))

Our country or death。

((A)) See 0/27987-63.

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

((A)) See 2X/O/CUD/T2608-63。

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
