DATE: 01/13/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10127

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: N0078

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: LOWMAN, DAVID
TO: PDASOFD (INTEL)

TITLE :
SSCSGO QUERIES

DATE: 01/26/76
PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS:
INVESTIGATION, WARREN COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/12/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE
FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: N0078
26 January 1976
ansra 8/3 0109

TOP SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE (INTELLIGENCE)

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Queries to NSA Concerning
the Warren Commission

Reference your letter dated 14 January 1976 transmitting
a request from Mr. Alton Quanbeck of the Senate Select
Committee Staff. The following information is provided in
response to Mr. Quanbeck's letter, keyed by paragraph to
his letter (inclosed - see underlined portions). Most of
the information was made available to the SSC Staff, Mr.
Jim Johnson, during an interview with Dr. Louis Tordella
on 20 January 1976.

Para. 1. - NSA requested permission to retain
photocopies of those reports on which we had worked merely
as record copies of our efforts on behalf of the Commission.
It was felt that if a question should arise at that time
concerning what analytic efforts had been involved and the
number of manhours expended, a record copy would prove useful.
No operational use was made of these documents except to
hold them on file for a period of time which cannot now be
determined. To the best of our present knowledge, the photo-
copies have now been destroyed. Absolutely no results
relevant to the assassination were obtained through NSA'S
analytic look at the exhibits. The Commission, in the person
of Mr. Allan Dulles, had asked Dr. Tordella, informally, to
review the exhibits for any secret writing or codes which
might have been contained in the documents. Dr. Tordella,
after causing a careful review of the documents by NSA crypt-
analysts, reported verbally to Mr. Dulles and other Commission
members that nothing whatsoever had been achieved by the
analytic effort. No written reply was submitted.

Classified by DIRNGA/CHCES (NSS/CSSM 123-2)
Exempt from CDS, EO 11652, Sec. 3(b)
Declassify Upon Notification by the Originator

APPENDED DOCUMENTS CONTAIN
CODEWORD MATERIAL

MANDLE VIA CONTENT COLASTPAS ONLY

Serial: N0078

Para. 2. - NSA is uncertain as to what is precisely
meant by these comments, but we assume that the comments on
names refer to our biographic files which are maintained on
foreign personalities of potential intelligence significance.
As the Committee knows, these biographic files are maintained
(now at CIA incidentally) as analytic support. It is also
possible that the Commission was referring to the fact that
names are frequently seen in traffic collected for foreign
intelligence purposes and therefore NSA might have access
to foreign names not otherwise available to the Intelligence
Community.

Para. 3. - It may well be that CIA did obtain such
transmissions and pass them to NSA for analysis, but no one
presently working that analytic area recalls such a request.
Discussions with Dr. Tordella also failed to shed any light
on this subject. There are no files or records which we have
been able to locate from that time frame which would sub-
stantiate such a claim. In fact, the only file the responsible
analytic group has been able to locate concerning a request
from the Warren Commission deals with a file compiled from
open sources citing major dates in the last months of Oswald's
life. Presumably the date file was to be compared with NSA
product on/about the key dates in the hope that something
could be deduced. The file does not contain any "hits."
The analysts who performed this effort have since retired.

Para. 4. - The informal request from Mr. Dulles is
the known total extent of NSA's role in assisting in the
investigation. The file discussed in Paragraph 3 is the only
file thus far recovered. There is no information which can
now be identified which was developed from Cuban or Soviet
transmissions relating to the assassination.

Para. 5. We have no information on this subject
at all. However, pursuant to the subject raised during the
Tordella interview, we have searched our files manually,
and as Mr. Lowman agreed during the Tordella interview, we
have recovered three product reports (Inclosures 2 through
4) which show that Cuban military forces did go on alert
immediately after the assassination. There is no SIGINT
evidence, however, that the Cuban forces were alerted prior
to the assassination, thereby suggesting that they had prior
knowledge of the event.

2

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES JEE.
SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Serial: N0078

Para. 6. No hard copy material of any kind was
provided to the Commission (see Para. 1).

DAVID D. LOWMAN
Special Assistant
to the Director
for Congressional Reviews

4 Incls:
a/s

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

3
HANDLE VIA COMENT CIKALS CRY

Serial: N0078

cc: DIR (Less Incls)
D/DIR "
ESS "
ESS/R
ESS, Mr. Lowman
G, Mr. Peksa
NCRDEF
A, Miss Caracristi (Less Incls)
L221 "

M/R: Inclosures 2 through 4 are product reports numbered
2/0/CURUJ/R66-63, 2/O/CUN/R196-63 and 2/O/CUJ/R58-63.

Frank Foster/O/ESS/316ls/26 Jan 76/kjb

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET
CONTROL NO.
२०६
R2132
RELEASED
SEEN RY
DATE TIME DATE TIME NAME & OFFICE SYMBOL
REFERRED TO
RECEIVED
OFFICE
SIGNATURE
Handle Via Indicated Controls
COMINT

Access to this document will be restricted to those persons
cleared for the specific projects;

WARNING
This document contains information affecting the national security of the United States within the meaning of
the espionage lows U. S. Code Title 18, Sections 793, 794 and 798. The law prohibits its transmission or the
revelation of its contents in ony manner to an unauthorized person, as well as its use in any manner prejudicial
to the solely or interest of the United States or for the benclit of any foreign government to the detriment of
the United States. It is to be seen only by personnel especially indoctrinated and authorized to receive in.
formation in the designated control channels. Its security must be maintained in accordance with regulations
pertorming to the BYEMAN and Communications Intelligence Controls. No action is to he taken on any com.
munications intelligence which may be contained herein, regardless of the advantage to be gained, il such
action might have the effect of revooling the existence and nature of the source, unless such action is first
approved by the appropriate authority.
DATE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,
SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
Incl

PRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAINMAM
JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN
PHILIP A. HAHT, MICH. HOWARD H. BAKER, JR.,
WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN. BARRY GOLDWATER, AMIZ
WALTER. KUDOLESTON, KY. CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.
ROBERT MORGAN, H.C. RICHARD S. SCHWEIXER, P۸۰
CARY HART, COLO

WILLIAM & MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR.. CHIEF COUNSEL
CURTIS A. SMOTHERS, MIHORITY COUNSEL
HANDE
United States Senate
SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(PURSUANT TO S. RES. EI, 94TH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510
ELS

January 13, 1976

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer
Special Assistant to the Secretary
U. S. Department of Defense
Washington, D. C. 20301

Dear Tom:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation of
the assassination of President Kennedy, we earlier received
answers to certain questions put to NSA. Since then we have
examined other material pertaining to NSA's contribution to
the Warren Commission's investigation and we desire further in-
formation from NSA.

By way of background for this request, we note the Warren
Commission provided NSA various documents and asked NSA to re-
view them for any cryptological significance. NSA found no
cryptological significance and its report of this fact was pub-
lished by the Commission.

1. By letter of July 10, 1964, (a copy of which is attached)
Mr. Rankin provided General Blake a copy of certain documents
requested by Dr. Tordella for NSA's files. Since NSA's analysis
of the documents was apparently completed at the time of Rankin's
letter, we wish to know why NSA wanted to keep these documents
for its file. Further, we wish to know what use. if any, was
made of these documents and what results relevant to the assassina-
tion were obtained from such use.

2. In a Commission staff internal memorandum, discussing the
documents provided NSA, it is reported that NSA is "primarily
interested in names," and NSA claims it has "information on names
which the CIA does not have." Assuming these statements are ac-
curate, we wish to know what significance such names would have

TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS
CLAST SSC Intell act
EXAM BERAM DECLASSIFICA LON
SCHEDULE OF FO
§5121 the we dores
AUTOMATICALLY DELOSSIFIED ON
Impossible to Determine
Tunlese napossible, asert date or event)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS OF RECORDS CONC, THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES, JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR, MLK, JR,

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer
January 13, 1976
Page Two
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS

to NSA and what information on names NSA had that CIA did not.
If names had significance, what names did NSA use in its analysis?

3. We are informed that CIA obtained transmissions from the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for November or December 1963 and
that it may have passed these to NSA for analysis. Did NSA re-
ceive these transmissions or any transmissions relevant to the
assassination inquiry? Did it analyze them? What were the re-
sults of its analysis?

4.
We are interested in learning the extent of NSA's role in
assisting in the investigation of the assassination. In that
connection, please inform the Committee the extent of NSA files
relating to the assassination. Please p lease provide the staff of the
Committee access to those files. Please ease provide the staff with
a summary of all information NSA developed from Cuban or Soviet
transmissions relating to the assassination.

5. We have been informed that after the assassination the
Cuban government instructed its embassies and consulates to re-
turn all files on Oswald to Cuba. What information does NSA
have on whether such instructions were issued?

6. In connection with the answers to questions 4 and 5, please
indicate whether such material was provided the Warren Commission
and provide copies of all documents evidencing that fact,

We would appreciate receiving a response to these questions,
as soon as possible and to expedite this inquiry we are sending
a copy of this letter to Mr. Foster of NSA.

cc: Frank Foster
Sincerely,
al
Alton H. Quanbeck
CLASSIFIED BY SSC Intell. act
EXEMPT FROM FLASSIFICATION
SCIF PELERON LATEGIAY
rile une or more)
AT VECLASSIFIED ON
Impossible to Extermine
Conless sorg.

بالكلمحامات ١٥٣
HANDLE VIA COMBICE CHANNELS
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES, JFK,
SEN, RFK, AND THE REV. DR MLK, JR.

JLR:RM/bjc
7/7/64
Lieutenant, General Gordon A. Blake, U.S.A.F
Director, National Security Arence
Fort George O. Meade, Maryland
Dear General Blake:
NSA
JUL 1 0 1964

In regard to Dr. Tordello's request, the National
Scurity Agency is authorized to keep for its file the following
photographic copies of items which have been used by the
Commission in its investigation:

(1) 1) Commission Exhibit 31

(2) Commission Exhibit 15

(3) Commission Exhibit 104

(4) Commission Exhibit 18

(5) Typewritten version of Commission Exhibit 24

(6) F. B. I. items A-2, A-6

(7) F. B. I. items 137, 152

have rendered the Commissi0%.
Thank you for the cooperation and assistance you
Sincerely,
SIGNED

cc: Mr. Rankin
Mr. Willens
Mr. Mosk
J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel
RECT

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET KIMBO
2/0/CON/9196-63
25 Νοv 6318152
DZST: O/WA
ST 250

ALEILY IN PASTEIN HAVAL DISTRICT PELARED, 23 NOVE BER
As a result of the death of President RESTEDY, the Eastern
Naval Matrick of Cuba us placed or an alart at 20442
22 Novesber by Bansa, headquarters for that district. ((4))
3:44PM
EST

At 20372 on 23 Novesker, the alert as relaxed a cartain
degree by Bases; inatzections were passed to Santiago do Cabe,
a subordato, to give leave to 25 percent of their paracmel
for the 23rd and 4th and that farther orders would be forthcoming
сп-25 Noyab Novaber 1963.

Coom: The cuthorization
2
100 to grant leave to pertonnel
Indication that the alert is somewhat relaxed and
the note that further instructions would be issued on.
Monday, 25 November, indicates thit a novigent, view
has hun adopted for the altuation by Cibar Nival
ccthorities in the Eastern Saval fastrict.

((A)) (2/ZEL/CO/B11-63, 2/QS/CUN/2665, 1656, 1667-63)
Imal 3
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS OF RECORDS CONC THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES JFK, SEN,
RFK, AND THE REV, DR MLK, J

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/CUJ/R58-63
26 Νον 63 20197
DIST: O/WA
ST 250

ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERMINATED
The alert in Oriente Provinca (see 2/0/CUN/R196-63) is be-
lieved to be teralnated. The alert, apparently prompted by
President KENNEDY's death on 22 November, was possibly pre-
scheduled to terminate on 25 November. There have been two orders
which suggest that the alert was destined to be concluded on
25 November; they are:

1) Access to the Coastal Observation Post at Punta
20-574-05 אמא( was restricted until 25 November because
of the alert (see 2/QS/CUN/R667-63); and

2) Subordinates of Banes, Readquarters Pastern Naval
District, were to receive further orders on the 25th, presumably
concerning their alert status (2/0/CW/196-63); по Buch orders
have been noted in communications.

There have been no further references in Intercepted communi-
cations to the alert since 02222 on 23 November (2/QS/CUR/R667-63).

It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation
Post at Punta Halsi extends to other Observation Posts in Oriente
Province such as reported on 23 Noventer when Pirst Army Coastal
Observation Posts were placed In an alert status
(2/21/CM/R138-67), 204 that the restriction was to be lifted on
2) Bovenber by all those posts.

Further indication that the alert has terminated is the fact
that the Coman Navy was engaged in an island-wide communications
exercise an 23 Novecher. It is considered unlikely that such an
exercise Kaila be conducted umer alert cordistons.

There have been at further sefereixes to the alert atatたせた
of the (D percent Santiago de Cuba) units which was first ob-
served on 21 November (2/3T/CUA/ROS-63). 111 GRAF and Soviet
Forces Cuba comunications appear to be rorail during this
10d, 22-26 Covealec 1953.

T. PLUS CG 2
Ire14
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS OF RECORDS CONC THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES JYK SEN
REK, AND THE REV. DE MLK, JA
