Doc ID: 6879056 Doc KFOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10330
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/KOD/T1407-63 ROK FUNERAL ENVOY [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

-TOP SECRET UMBRA-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879056 Doc Ref ID: A4269352

TOP SECRET DINAR

Korean (South) KODY WS 311-SNY-55 3/0/KOD/T1407-63
IS 24 Noy 17212 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 300

ROK FUNERAL ENVOY

FR Seoul: Vice Foreign Minister 24 Nov 63 02502
TO New York: Ambassador to the UN Top Urgent
Msg Nr: --

Please report the following to the Foreign Minister.

1. The [ROK] Presidential envoy that will attend the
funeral ceremonies for the late President KENNEDY (consists of]:

LEE HU RAK, Chief of the Office of Public Information,
SCNR.

CHO SANG HO, Colonel
PAK CHONG KYU, Commander of the Guard Unit.
CHI CHU CHI, doctor
CHO'NG TO SUN, Protocol Chief.

2. The Protocol Chief is bringing a morning coat for the
Foreign Minister. Would you please secure a silk vest. ((A))

((A)) See 2X/O/KOD/T440-63.

MS.. CN ILC TI --
Korean (South) 3/0/KOD/T1407-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
