Doc ID: 6879047 Doc REFOP SECRET UMBRA-
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10362
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/IAD/T96-64 REPORT ON CASTRO'S TELEVISION SPEECH REGARDING PRESIDEN [R]
DATE : 01/20/64
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: 干
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

-TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879047 453592
Doc Ref ID: A4269395 folder TPI

TOP SECRET DINAR

Indonesian LADH-51A WS 3-HVJ-42 3/0/IAD/T96-64
IS 20 Jan 2259Z P
Dist: HCF

REPORT ON CASTRO'S TELEVISION SPEECH REGARDING PRESIDENT
KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION

FR Havana: INDONESIA 24 Nov 63
TO Djakarta: DEPARLU --
Msg Nr: 42

For: First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Info: North American Directorate.

From: NABI.

No. 29.

1. In connection with the accusations in the U.S. press
that OSWALD, accused of assassinating KENNEDY, was a pro-CASTRO
communist, Prime Minister CASTRO spoke before Cuban television,
a summary of which follows.

2. Cuba is remorseful and has gained no advantage by the
assassination of KENNEDY.

3. The accusations of the U.S. press have no foundations
whatsoever, and are only the activities of the ultra reactionary
group in the U.S. whose intentions are to depreciate the names
of Cuba and the Soviet Union.

4. CASTRO thinks that JOHNSON will not be as strong as
KENNEDY since he was not elected president by the people directly.
He will not be as influential as KENNEDY in damning up the
strength of the ultra reactionaries in the U.S. who pursue
policies which are extremely hostile and very dangerous to the
Soviet Union and Cuba..
/
✓
3/0/IAD/T96-64
Indonesian

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6879047
Doc Ref ID: A4269395

TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/LAD/T96-64
Indonesian

5. In short, that was the speech,

The interesting thing is that while the Soviet Union
only answered these accusations with an article in the
newspaper and expressed their sorrow in a meaningful manner
by sending Deputy Prime Minister MIKOYAN to Washington, CASTRO
considered it necessary to answer the accusations of the U.S.
press officially as Prime Minister in a speech at a time when
friends and enemies of the U.S. generally were expressing their
respect for KENNEDY. Also interesting is the fact that he not
only defended Cuba but the Soviet Union as well.

MS CN ILC TI
-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
