Doc ID: 6878989
Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10316
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/ITD/T3540-63 FRENCH REACTIONS TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEATH [R]
DATE: 11/27/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : モ
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878989
Doc Ref ID: A4268850

Italian ITDP WS 12368 3/0/ITD/T3540-63
IS 27 Nov 19352 P
Dist: HCF
ST 270

FRENCH REACTIONS TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEATH

FR Paris: Embassy 23 Nov 63
TO Rome: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 1889

Signed BROSIO.

The death of President KENNEDY has made an enormous impression
in France and aroused an emotion [8M]. Government circles, beginning
with DE GAULLE, immediately forgetting (4G) differences with the
United States, are unanimous in exalting the image of the deceased
President.

At the same time concern is not being concealed over the
internal evolution of the United States, where political differences
and the race conflict run the risk of being intensified.

On the international level, it is believed in Paris that the
West has lost a leader of major prestige and force and that this will
not fail to have repercussions on East-West relations.

JOHNSON is considered an obscure figure and a man, despite his
(B val political) experience, of minor caliber, with the consequences
of depriving the United States for [5G) a year, (B val that is),
until the (B val next) elections, of any effective political direction.
With the approach of the presidential elections the first signs
were already (B val noted) of hesitation and indecision which
diminished the capability for decision by the United States, and
the death of President KENNEDY risks paralyzing (7G) Washington
with unforeseeable consequences on both the domestic and the
international levels.

Italian ✓ 3/0/ITD/T3540-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878989
Doc Ref ID: A4268850

Italian TOP SECRET DINAR 3/0/ITD/T3540-63

All agree, then, in (11G/M), over and above the differences,
that Europe has lost [51G/M) (B val the West) one of its best
leaders.

Communicated to ITALNATO and, by pouch, to the London embassy.

MS 78T CN ITDB 50101 ΤΙ
-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
