DocʻID: 6878907
-----
DOFTOP SECRET UMBRATE:03/26/97
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10100
RECORDS SERIES :
PAGE: 1

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T1945-63: POLISH REACTIONS TO KENNEDY'S DEATH  [R]
DATE: 11/29/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
POLAND, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY  [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878907
*
Doc Ref ID: A4268733
TOP SECRET DINAR
HHHINO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION****
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10  WS 373  3/0/W/T1945-63
      29 Nov 63

POLISH REACTIONS TO KENNEDY'S DEATH

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN  23 Νοv 63 1100
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs  Urgent
Msg. Nr. 486

For WINIEWICZ

Our Nr. 482ª point 3. Everything points to the continuation of the internal
struggle [B val based) on the political interpretation of KENNEDY's assassi-
nation. Immediately after the attempt, the initial commentaries linked it
with the racist movement, which assumed the offensive by rallying themselves
around the efforts of the Texas police in order to saddle OSWALD, a reputed pro
CASTRO activist who two years ago wanted to remain in the USSR, with the
responsibility for the attempt. The arrest of Cubans was begun in Dallas.
GOLDWATER, who yesterday refused to comment on the assassination, joined the
campaign. Radio and television suspended all their programs and - with minor
exceptions which included ABC directed among others by the former EISENHOWER
press agent HAGHERTY taking advantage of this background to bring about anti-
communist hysteria. The fact that Saturday through Monday are days free of
work facilitates reaching the community.

Today's declaration by JOHNSON and the Department of State denying the
existence of reputed facts of a conspiracy against KENNEDY's life involving
the USSR and Cuba has as its aim the restraint of the campaign of extreme
racists, which can create difficulty in overcoming the internal situation and
could paralyze the foreign policy of Washington.

Probably in reply to these declarations circulated among the American
press (among others in the UN) is the theme that the KENNEDY murder could have
been inspired by those centers in the USSR which do not want a detente. This
theme is also being linked with the attempt to arrest BARGHOORN, the downing
of the Iranian aircraft, and Berlin access roads.

Polish 3/0/W/T1945-63
*
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878907
Doc Ref ID: A4268733

Polish
TOP SECRET DINAR
PHANO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION***
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
3/0/W/T1945-63

It is anticipated that immediately after the funeral personal intrigue will
begin. Speculation of RUSK's resignation are being repeated (possible succes-
sors, FULBRIGHT or HARRIMAN if JOHNSON is determined to continue the present
relations with the USSR and BUNDY or perhaps someone comparable but thus far
an unknown politician if he decides to lead the Democratic party to the
elections on a wave of hardfast foreign policy).

a. See 3/0/W/T1944-63.
LEWANDOWSKI

MS CN TI

-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
