Doc ID: 6878865 Doc Ref ID: A4268731
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE: 1

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10098
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/AED/T485-63: POSSIBLE CHANGE IN MEXICAN POSITION TOWARD CUBA [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ARGENTINA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878865 Doc Ref TOP SECRET DINAR-
Argentine ARDW-1 WS 1029 3/O/ARD/T485-63
IS 02 Dec 18192 P
Dist; HCF
ST 300

POSSIBLE CHANGE IN MEXICAN POSITION TOWARD CUBA

FR Washington: WEIDMANN 29 Nov 63
TO Buenos Aires: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 501

It is known that the Mexican Foreign Minister was obviously.
disturbed by the knowledge of the note sent by the Cuban
Government to the Mexican Government attributing to it partici-
pation in a plot aimed at involving the CASTRO Government int
the plan for the attack on KENNEDY. Because of this, it is
felt that there may be a change in the well known Mexican
position toward the Cuban problem.

MS -- CN -- TI --

Argentine 3/O/ARD/T485-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
