Doc ID: 6878933
Doc Ref ID: A4268786
DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10281
RECORDS SERIES:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USAF
FROM: NSA AFSSO ALCOM
TO:
TITLE:
PLOT TO ASSASSINATE
DATE: 11/27/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
THREAT, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA:
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

Doc ID: 6867IJ540ZKZK 00 ZHO ZRA ZNZ ZLA ZLS DE
Ref A4268786
TC E9 32

ZKZK OO RNI ZSL DERAA321LNA861
OOOOOOOO
VVVVVV

OO YEKAAH
DE YKRALN 7 27/1927Z NOV

ZKZK 00 SOA DE

0 271925Z ZYH
FM AFSSO ALCOM/AAC
TO DIA/CIIC

INFO DIRNSA

USA 66

ZEM

TOP SECRET DINAR ALCOM 27-11-08. SUBJ: PLOT TO ASSASSINATE.

SOMETIME AGO THIS CENTER RECEIVED A CRITIC, DURING ONE OF

PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S TRIPS TO FLORIDA, REGARDING A PLOT TO ASSASSINATE
THE PRESIDENT AND HIS SISTER. (THIS CRITIC IS NOT ON FILE IN THIS

HEADQUARTERS. HOWEVER, A CHECK OF RECORDS REVEALS THAT IT MAY
HAVE ORIGINATED AT USA-66, CITE 25-278-63, 25/0839Z MAR 63). IN

VIEW OF RECENT EVENTS AND ACCUSED SLAYED OSWALD'S PURPORTED CUBAN
ASSOCIATIONS IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT INTERCEPT RECORDS BE RESEARCHED

TO DETERMINE ANY POSSIBLE CONNECTION BETWEEN CITED CRITIC ANDLTHE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SLAYING OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.
