Doc ID: 6878902 TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
PAGE:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10089
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T1935-63: INSTRUCTIONS TO POLISH MISSIONS ON OBSERVATION OF [R]
DATE : 11/26/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
POLAND, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc ID: 6878902 Doc Ref ID: A4268717
TOP SECRET DINAR
*****************NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION*****************
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-13 WS 118 3/0/W/T1935-63
26 Nov 63
:

INSTRUCTIONS TO POLISH MISSIONS ON OBSERVANCE OF KENNEDY'S DEATH

FR Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs 23 Nov 63 0130
TO London: Polish Embassy Routine
a
Msg. Nr. 13227

For the Chief of Mission

In connection with KENNEDY's death, relay our message of sympathy to the
diplomatic representative of the USA according to local procedures. Hang the
flag at half mast for the period decided upon by the local corps.

MICHALOWSKI
a. Circular message; also sent to Paris.

MS 88 CN PLDA 50102 TI

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
