Doc ID: 6878959 Doc Ref ID SECRET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10269
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM: USM-620K
TO: ROMEO SEVEN/GOLF

TITLE :
2/R7/GCY/172-68 SED DAILY SUMMARY
DATE: 00/10/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
DAILY SUMMARY
ASSASSINATION, OTHER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/13/97
OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8
SECRET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878959 Doc Ref ID: 44268 SPOKE
CATEGORY = 2 M = 27
MESSAGE = ØØ550736

MMSGMSGØlØØ745CZCBIA665HAG849
PP YCRNAH YEKADA YEKAXA DE
YFNLAH 58 1621885
ZKZK PP RII ZDI NRL DE
P 19123ØZ
FM USM 62ØK
TO ROMEO SEVEN/GOLF USM 62Ø ZEN/UKM 251Q
ZEM
SECRET SAVIN
XXMM
ENPØ6-FP18068 2/R7/GCY/R172-68 SED DAILY SUMMARY
XXCC

(ITEM NO: 8 CONT) THE NEWS OF THE ASSASSINATION OF U.S. SENATOR ROBERT KENNEDY
WAS HEARD WITH INDIGNATION AND DISGUST BY INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL WORKERS.
MANY WORKERS CONDEMNED POLITICAL MURDER AS COMMITTED AGAINST FORMER-PRESIDENT
JOHN F. KENNEDY. THEY PROTESTED SHARPLY AGAINST THOSE EXTREMIST REACTIONARY
CIRCLES WHO, IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THEIR ANTIDEMOCRATIC AND ANTICOMMUNIST GOALS,
ARE INCREASINGLY PRACTICING MURDER AGAINST THEIR POLITICAL OPPONENTS AND WHO
HAVE INTRODUCED MURDER AS A MEANS OF POLITICAL DUSCUSSION THE THE INTERNAL
POLITICS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. MANY WORKERS MADE STATEMENTS SIMILAR
TO THE FOLLOWING: "KENNEDY'S ELECTION AS PRESIDENT WOULD PROBABLY HAVE LED TO
AN ALTERATION OF THE CRIMINAL U.S. WAR IN VIETNAM: THEREFORE HE HAD TO DIE."
"THE REACTIONARY FORCES OF THE USA, REPOONSIBLE FOR THE MURDER OF JOHN F.
KENNEDY, WANTED TO ERADICATE THE FUTURE PRESIDENT THROUGHT THE MURDER OF ROBERT
KENNEDY, WHO WOULD HAVE REVENGED THE CRIMINAL ASSASSINATION OF HIS BROTHER HAD
HE COME TO POWER." B. HALLE HALLE BEZIRK REPORTS (GIST, C.185ØZ, 19 JUN 68,
21/A/274) THAT THE SITUATION IN THE CSSR IS STILL NOT OCCUPYING THE MAJORITY OF
DUSCUSSIONS AND CONTINUES TO DECREASE AS A TOPIC OF CONVERSATION, ALTHOUGH
GREAT CONCERN HAS BEEN EXPRESSED OVER DEVELOPMENTS THERE, SUCH AS "THE OPENING
OF THE BORDER TO WEST GERMANY AND AUSTRIA IS A SERIOUS DANGER FOR THE SOCIALIST
CAMP, ESPECIALLY THE DDR." FEARS WERE EXPRESSED THAT THIS WOULD ENABLE CERTAIN
ELEMENTS TO FLEE THE DDR THROUGH THE CSSR AND WOULD ALLOW AGENTS AND
REVANCHISTS FROM WEST GERMANY TO BE BROUGHT IN TO SUPPORT THE COUNTER-
REVOLUTIONARY FORCES. IT WAS ASKED: "HOW ABOUT THE COMMAND POSITIONS OF THE
ARMED FORCES OF THE CSSR--ARE THEY IN THE HANDS OF CONSCIOUS COMRADES OF THE
CZECHOSLOVAK COMMUNIST PARTY (CPC):" "WILL THE ARMED FORCES OF THE CSSR FULFILL
THEIR DUTIES WITHIN THE WARSAW PACT:" CITIZENS WHO HAVE VISITTED THE CSSR HAVE
STATED: "IN THE CITIES AND VILLAGES OF THE CSSR THE SITUATION IS NO DIFFERENT
THAN EVER. NOW THE PEOPLE LIVE MORE FREELY." "THE CITIZENS OF THE CSSR HAVE
GREAT CONFIDENCE IN THE NEW PARTY AND STATE LEADERS AND FIRMLY BELIEVE IN THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF ORDERLY CONDITIONS." "WHY SHOULDN'T THE CSSR BUILD SOCIALISM
IN ACCORDANCE WITH HER OWN IDEAS: IT WOULD BE SUFFICIENT IF THE SOCIALIST
_ COUNTRIES OERELY OBSERVED, TO MAKE CERTAIN THAT NO NONSENSE HAS GOING ON. LET'S
NOT OVERSTIMATE THE DANGER IN THE CSSR: THE LEADING COMRADES OF THE CPC WILL
HANDLE THE SITUATION PROPERLY." REPORTS BY THE DELEGATIONS THAT WERE IN THE
CSSR DURING THE PAST FEW DAYS REVELA THAT THERE IS NO UNIFORM CONCEPT AS TO THE
BASIC PROBLEMS OF THE LEADING ROLE OF THE PARTY, THE POWER, THE DEVELOPMENT OF
DEMOCRACY, OR OF ECONOMIC AND GOVERNMENTAL RELATIONSHIPS. THE REPORTS ALSO
REVEAL THAT THE DELEGATIONS OCCASIONALLY ENCOUNTERED PEOPLE WHO WERE PREPARED
FOR THEM AND WHO ATTEMPTED TO DIRECT THE DISCUSSION IN A PARTICULAR DIRECTION:
WITH THE JUSTIFICATION OF THEIR PATH AND THAT"WE" NEED HAVE NO WORRIES OVER THE
SECRET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878959 Doc Ref ID: A4SCORET SPOKE
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE CSSR. EVEN FUNCTIONARIES KNOWN TO DELEGATION MEMBERS OF
THE CPC EXHIBITED SUBJECTIVE CONCEPTS, NATIONALIST TENDENCIES AND FUZZINESS
REGARDING BASIC QUESTIONS AND PRINCIPLES OF MARXISM-LENINISM ON THE LEADING
ROLE OF THE PARTY, THE DICTATORSHIP OF THE PROLETARIAT, PROLETARIAN
INTERREACTIONALISM, AND PROLETARIAN WATCHFULNESS.SOME DELEGATIONS, ESPECIALLY
THOSE IN THE AREAS AROUND PROGUE, PLZEN, TABOR, AND KARLOVY VARY, WERE UNABLE
TO JOIN IN CONVERSATIONS OTHER THAT OFFICIALLY SANCTIONED ONES WITH PARTY AND
TRADE UNION FUNCTIONARIES OR TO ENGAGE IN DUSCUSSIONS NITII NORKERS. IN ALL
CONVERSATIONS THE SUBJECTS OF COMRADE HAGER'S SPEECH AND VARIOUS ARTICLES FROM
"NEUES DEUTSCHLAND" INVARIABLY CAME UP. THEY WERE DESCRIBED AS GROSS
INTERVENTION IN THE INTERNAL AFFAIRS OF THE CSSR. DESPITE INSISTENCE THAT ALL
EFFORTS WERE STILL TOWARD THE CONSTRUCTION OF SOCIALISM AND THAT FRIENDSHIP
WITH THE SOVIET UNION IS A NECESSARZ PREREQUISITE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
CSSR, TENDENCIES TOWARD ANTI-SOVIET OPINION APPEARED XXHII 785 NNNN
SECRET SPORE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
