Doc ID: 6878875 Doc Ref ID: A4268690
SECRET SPOKE DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10061
RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA [R]
FROM: NSA
TO: O/WA
TITLE:
2/O/CUN/R196-63: ALERT IN EASTERN NAVAL DISTRICT RELAXED, 23 NOVEMBER [R]
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: [R]
CUBA, MILITARY ACTIVITY
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/09/93
OPENING CRITERIA:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET SPOKE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878875 Doc Ref ID: A4268690

SECRET KIMBO

2/O/CUN/R186-63
25 Nov 63 1815Z
DIST: O/WA
ST 250

ALERT IN EASTERN NAVAL DISTRICT RELAXED, 23 NOVEMBER

As a result of the death of President KENNEDY, the Eastern
Naval District of Cuba was placed on an alert at 2044Z on
22 November by Banes, headquarters for that district.((A))

At 2037Z on 23 November, the alert was relaxed a certain
degree by Banes; instructions were passed to Santiago de Cuba,
a subordinate, to give leave to 25 percent of their personnel
for the 23rd and 24th and that further orders would be forthcoming
on 25 November 1963.

COMMENT: The authorization to grant leave to personnel is an
indication that the alert is somewhat relaxed and
the note that further instructions would be issued on
Monday, 25 November indicates that a nonurgent view
has been adopted for the situation by Cuban Naval
authorities in the Eastern Naval District.

((A)) (2/LR1/CUN/R11-63, 2/QS/CUN/R665, R666, R667-63).

SECRET CODEWORD

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
