Doc ID: 6878979 Doc KTOP SECRET UMBRA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA DATE: 10/09/98
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10303 PAGE: 1
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/FRD/T1193-63 DE GAULLE'S ATTITUDE AT TIME OF KENNEDY'S DEATH IMPRE [R]
DATE : 12/02/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878979 Doc Ref ID: A4268830
TOP SECRET DINAR

French FRDBT WS 9891-92 3/0/FRD/T1193-63
IS 02 Dec 18092 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

DE GAULLE'S ATTITUDE AT TIME OF KENNEDY'S DEATH IMPRESSES MANY

FR Accra: GROUSSET 27 Nov 63
TO Paris: The Department Most Immediate
Msg Nr: 180-81

[2-part message complete]

A religious service in memory of President KENNEDY was held
yesterday afternoon in the church in Accra. A particularly large
crowd, mostly Africans, literally; overflowed the Porticoes.
Contrary to the practice of President NKRUMAH, who never
participates in religious ceremonies, several members of the
government and the President of the Supreme Court of Justice were
present. Except for the Cuban and Chinese ambassadors, the chiefs
of the diplomatic missions were in attendance.

-President NKRUMAH broadcast a message to the nation exalting
the personality of the late President "who will be extolled in the
annals of humanity for his action against racism and his efforts
in favor of peace and human rights."

President DE GAULLE's act of attending the funeral in person
and the wording of his two messages to Mrs. KENNEDY and to the
new President of the United States impressed many of my colleagues
and members of the government, who praised the human and political
aspects of our President's attitude.

MS UKF-120 CN ILC TI -

French 3/0/FRD/T1193-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
