Doc ID: 6878920 Doc Ref ID: A4268742 Date:03/24/97
SECRET SPOKE PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10108
RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA [R]
FROM: NSA
TO: O/WG

TITLE:
2/0/CUM/R96-63: WESTERN ARMY TOLD TO STAND BY FOR ALERT IN REACTION [R]
DATE: 12/05/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: [R]
CUBA, MILITARY ACTIVITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: S
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET SPOKE

Doc ID: 6878920 Doc Ref ID: A4268742
2/0/CUM/R96-63
05 Dec 63 2303Z
DIST: O/WG
ST 250

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

COMINT REPORT

WARNING

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within
the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission
or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and read by only those
persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-
munications intelligence security regulations and who need the
information in order to perform their duties.

No action is to be taken on information herein reported, re-
gardless of temporary advantage, if such action might have the
effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878920 Doc Ref ID: A4268742

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/CUM/R96-63
05 Dec 63 2303Z
DIST: O/WG
ST 250

WESTERN ARMY TOLD TO STAND BY FOR ALERT IN REACTION TO DEATH
OF KENNEDY

Information not previously available reveals that 1st Div
Hq, Bahia Honda, was advised to keep personnel of its command
available in case a state of alert were declared in response
to events following the death of President KENNEDY. The
message, intercepted from (Coval 4th) Army Corps Hq, Pinar
del Rio, also prohibited statements pro or con with regard
to the death of the President.

Bahia Honda replied that steps had already been taken in
compliance with these orders.

COMMENT:

Units of the Eastern Naval District were placed on alert,
presumably due to the proximity of Guantanamo Naval Base, after
the KENNEDY assassination, as were unidentified army coastal
observation posts in the First Army area (2/0/CUJ/R58-63). There
is no indication, however, that Western Army units were formally
put on a state of alert.

Page 1 of 1 Page(s)
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
SECRET KIMBO
