Doc ID: 6878999 Doc Ref SECRET MORAY DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10298
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CED/T103-63 CAMBODIAN CONDOLENCES TO DEAN RUSK ON DEATH OF PRESID [R]
DATE : 11/24/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878999 Doc Ref ID: A4268813
SECRET SABRE
2X/0/CED/T103-63
IS 24 Nov 15472 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300
SECRET
0/26563-63
CAMBODIAN CONDOLENCES TO DEAN RUSK ON DEATH OF PRESIDENT

FR Phnom Penh: HUOT SAMBAT, Secretary 23 Nov 63 1305
of State for Foreign Affairs Priority
TO Washington: DEAN RUSK
Msg Nr: 310/DP

The Royal Government learned with shock the news of the
attack against President KENNEDY and his death.

The Royal Government offers its respects to the mortal
remains of the illustrious deceased, whom Cambodia regarded with
sincere admiration for his actions for peace and for the relaxation
of international tensions.

In (B val denouncing) this criminal act, the Royal Government
expresses its deepest sympathy to President KENNEDY's family.

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 57 CN ILC ΤΙ 23 Nov 63 10452

Cambodian P/L [French] WS 31-CXX- 2X/O/CED/T103-63
14563

0/26563-63
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878999 Doc Ref ID: A4268813
SECRET SABRE
2X/0/CED/T103-63
SECRET
0/26563-63
At this sad time it shares the bitter sorrow which [7G]
the American nation.

SECRET PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
