Doc ID: 6878867 Doc Ref ID: A4268739 DATE:03/24/97
TOP SECRET UMBRA PAGE:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10105
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/Z-BLD/T133-63: MEXICAN AUTHORITIES CONDUCT BRUTAL SEARCH AFTER

DATE: 12/14/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :
BRAZIL, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
CUBA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
MEXICO, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878867 Doc Ref ID: A4268739

TOP SECRET DINAR
*************NO FOREIGN DISSEM********************

Brazilian BLDQ WS 997 3/O/Z-BLD/T133-63
IS 14 Dec 1625Z P
Dist: HCF

MEXICAN AUTHORITIES CONDUCT BRUTAL SEARCH AFTER KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION

FR Mexico City: PIOCORREA 29 Nov 63
TO Rio de Janeiro: Foreign Ministry
Msg Nr: 311

Restricted.

The Mexican Government through its Embassy in Havana
has returned the note delivered to that Embassy by the Cuban
Government protesting the detention in this capital of a Mexican
woman employed at the Cuban Embassy in the course of the
investigations surrounding the assassination of KENNEDY.
The above-mentioned note, the text of which was revealed
in Havana, was written in extremely violent terms. The
Mexican Government does not contest the fact that the
employee was detained and a house search made on the day
following the Dallas crime, when it was learned that the
assassin had been here and had visited the Cuban Embassy as
well as that of the Soviet Union. Both of those
diplomatic missions reported that the visit involved a request
for visas for the two countries. It also appears certain that
the search in the home of the employee of the Cuban Embassy
was carried out with a certain brutality, which, moreover,
is usual in such cases here. The aspect [4G/M] Cuban Government
seems to want to exploit here is that the search was made by
order of the official candidate for the Mexican presidency,
at the time still the Minister of the Interior, who, as I
reported in my telegram Nr. 290((A)) is opposed by the leftists.

((A)) 3/0/BLD/T1918-63.
MS 991P CN ILC TI
Brazilian 3/O/Z-BLD/T133-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
