Doc ID: 6878976 Doc Ref ID: A4268798 DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10291
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

• Doc ID; 6878976 Doc Ref ID: A4268798 Robert E. Gould

(unclassified until filled)
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS
FROM (hour) (to) DATE
0745 1545 23 November 1963
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT
Mr. V. T. Larson 0745
TIME (L) EVENT
0745 SFCNL
0755 Notified LCDR McGrath of Telecon with Mueller. He will be out
about 0845.
0845 Released 2/0/RUD/R316 Unusual Activity on the Soviet Diplomatic
Circuit Between Moscow and Leopoldville.
0900 Colonel Walker (Phone 189-432) from ASA called in reference to
ADP 429. Says this message is in conflict with instructions
from General Blake. Got copy of message from M63 and called
Bl to inform them of Walker's concern. Mr Stewart not there,
but gave information to LtCol Odonovich, who is handling.
Msg in question instructs USM-84 to inform J2 US SOUTH COMD
that his intelligence requirements should be levied through
channels. Copy is in day file.
0915 Lt Cmdr McGrath appeared. Gave him copy of the Telecon and
referred him to Lt Col Odonovich, who is also interested in
the matter of supplying the Mueller with tapes.
0930 WO reports that JRC informs them of three Big Cigar msg.
13282 at %69; 13422 at 183; and 13352 at %28. Had Captain
Blaker inform A615.
0950 Mis Howell of Po53 picked up the message from CI/FID regarding
coverage on Frankfurt Oder link. This msg requires P052 action,
and she is contacting Mr Keniston in order to take appropriate
steps today.
1000 Dr Shinn called in to check on reaction. Is going to Laurel
and will report in again shortly afternoon.
1010 Ray Henderson A104 reported for watch.
1011 WO reports that CANTAT line was restored at 220744Z. Also
reports "BIG CIGAR NO PHONETICS 14532 #53". This information
relayed to A615.
1100 NIC Sit Check.
1110 Cox of CIA wants to know if Planes mentioned in J/56/BUA/R1-63
are Fishbed C or Fishbed D. B3 says they can't tell. So mformed Cox.
1125 Called LtCol Odonovich to find out if all action had been taken
regarding the Mueller. He assured me that everything had been
PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (sig) DUTY OFFICER (sig) REV. BY
NSA FORM 41847 de L 63dan 11 DRY NOW 40 which in CLASSIFICATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878976 Doc Ref ID: A4268798 Robert E. Gould

(unclassified until filled)
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS
FROM (hour) (to) DATE
0745 1545 23 November 1963
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT
Mr V. T. Larson 0745
TIME (L) EVENT
1125
(con't) handled by LtCdr McGrath.
1206 Mr Stewart of Bl came in and reported that according to a junior
EM in B145, USA-66 reports over 800 Gov't cipher msgs transmitted
from Havana to Moscow via ILC bsincen 0000 22 November. This in-
credible volume now being checked out by Contant of B145 for pur-
pose of issuing end product report if true.
1219 Dr Shinn is at home and will be at home until Monday morning.
1220 Released P055/255-63. Collateral information for USN-19 on
Brazil.
1400 GOLD TREE down 18242. 75% cover.
1420 Mr Embry of Sec Def Office says Monday is a nonworking day throughout
the world for all Govt Agencies a day of mourning. This was co-
ordinated with General Blaake, who says it is fine. Lt Dancy has
contacted Col McCabe, Col Holbert, and Mr Rowlet.
1430 Notified Dr Shinn at approx 1415 that USIB and the Watch were
meeting as usual. Also informed Farley. A and B desks have
informed the appropriate 05 offices who are responsible for
dragging in the people they need to support them.
1431 Mr Stewart of Bl said that Bl will be operating on an augmented
Septimus plan Monday.
1455 Ref item 1206: The actual number of messages transmitted was
four. Bl is notifying other recipients of the incorrect information.
1500 Brennan of RCI wantes to know if there will be courier service
on Monday. Watch says yes, but this won't be firm for another
hour or two. When watch office does provide answer, please
relay to Brennan.
1501 Rec'd GT preflgight 3780
1530 Provided Mr Stewart with addresses and phone numbers of Zaslow,
Col Swears, and JENKS so that he could notify them of mourning
plan for Monday. (This note added 0755 23 November).
PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (sig) DUTY OFFICER (sig) REV. BY
ICLASSLEICATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

. Doc ID: 6878976 Doc Ref ID: A4268798 Francis Smead

(unclassified until filled)
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS
FROM (hour) (to) DATE
1600 2400 23 Νον 63
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT
Mr. Gould 1545
TIME (L) EVENT
1545 SFCNL
1610 Col. Duvall, DIA called and wanted a complete run-down on SIGINT
reflections of assassination. '
1700 Brenan, STATE called and wanted to know if we had an official list
of the Representatives of other nations who are coming to Washington
for the funeral services, advised him we did not. He will send us
a list. He wants us to be an the alert and report immediately on
any instructions re these representatives particularily on people they
want to talk to in Washington. Anything that is seen in Dip traffic.
Instructed B desk to notify people in B1 and B2.
1710 Gen. Bläke is in his office, he has a meeting at 1715. Advised WO.
1750 Gen. Blake has departed for home. He left a package that he may
pick-up Monday, or he may call to have ADM Schulz.
1753 Received BARKSDALE AFB LA DTG 231935Z. Golden Tree mission 3779
landed at 2318242, 75% coverage.
1800 Major Melson, DIA IL-18 Moscow to Washington, Plane # 75764 Due in
Washington 0710 Monday. Aboard is Deputy Priminister Mickoyon?? and
7 Others. Advised STATE.
1820 JMajor Nelson, DIA Called to confirm the above sked. The flight is
designated Special %2319. Departs Moscow 2416252, via Breswick ETA
Breswick 24214OZ, ETD 2423252; ETA GANDER 250615Z, ETD GANDER 2507452;
ETA ANDREWS 1200Z (0700 Monday EST).
1905 The Duty Officer on Monday 25 N v 63 for ADC is Mr Ayres. He will be on
duty in the ADC office. Phone: 2303(s), 6501 (Red).
1955 Edwards, DIA/CIIC called to report that he was sending an OI message
to us, this is a retransmission of a message they received from the UN
CMDR in Korea. It is reported that a coup is to take place in S. Korea
at 0100(unknown if this is Zulu or Korean Local). Marine elements
involved.
2010 Brown, CIA reports they have heard from their units in Korea who also
report a possible coup. They are checking this out and will call back.
2040 Received calls from both CIA and DIA who stated that they did not
consider there was anything to the possible coup in S. Korea, that the
0100 time was Korean Local and that was nine hours ago. The U.S..
Military and CIA, Korea have advised the Korean Military about the
reports they have on the coup. Will call it. Col. Lang and advise him
PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (sig) DUTY OFFICER (sig) REV. BY
ICLASSLELCATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

. Doc ID: 6878976 Doc Ref ID: A4268798 Francis Smead

(unclassified until filled)
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS
FROM (hour) (to) DATE
1600 2400 23 Nov 63
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT
Mr Gould 1545
TIME (L) EVENT
of this. Will take no further action based on fact that both CIA AND DIA
state that there is nothing to the rumor.
2100 Received call from Bradley, CIA regarding SHAMROCK. ADVISED BRADLEY
THAT I WAS NOT IN POSITION TO DISCUSS THIS MATTER WITH HIM, BUT I WOULD
CALL SOMEONE IN WHO COULD. THERE IS NO LISTING OF SHAMROCK ANYWHERE,
FINALLY GOT HOLD OF LT. COL. ODONOVISH IN B1 HE ADVISED TO CALL JOHN
STOCKTON, NO ANSWER FROM STOCKTON. CALLED AL CONTENT WHO WILL BE IN.
BRADLEY SAID TO CALL AND TALK TO MR SLOSS, CIA WATCH OFFICER 1-8565.
NOTE IF A MATTER COMES UP THAT REQUIRES C GROUP ASSISTANCE AND BEARD CANNOT
BE REACHED, CALL MR. KELLER.
2110 Message from STATE with list of the DIGNITARIES TO VISIT WASHINGTON
FOR JEK FUNERAL IS COMING IN ON THE PRINTER NOW.
2130 RECEIVED CSAF WASH DC DTG 240106Z. Report of ALLEGED COUP PLOT AGAINST
ROK GOVERNMENT. SEE ITEM 2040 ABOVE.
DAY SNOO CALL JOHN STOCKTON, B1 TOMORROW MORNING AT 0800 TO COME IN AND TAKE
OK KEY A LOOK A MESSAGE FROM CIA THAT IS ON THE SNGO DESK.
PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (sig) DUTY OFFICER (sig) REV. BY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
