Doc ID: 6878983 Doc KFOP4SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10305
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO
TITLE : 3/0/FRD/T1254-63 FRENCH AND SYRIAN COMMENTS ON POPE'S TRIP [R]
DATE: 12/14/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
TOP SECRET UMBRA
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878983 Doc Ref ID: A4268833

French FRDBT WS 10234-37 3/0/FRD/T1254-63
IS 14 Dec 14552 P
Dist; HCF
ST 300
FRENCH AND SYRIAN COMMENTS ON POPE'S TRIP

FR Damascus; SEBILLEAU 11 Dec 63
TO Paris: The Department --
Msg Nr: 752-55

[4-part message complete]

When the Syrians learned that the Sovereign Pontiff had
decided to go to Jerusalem, they hastened to express their
satisfaction, as they always do every time they note any sign
of interest whatsoever shown by foreign countries with regard
to the Near East. Then they went on to express the hope that
the Pope would not fail to note, during his pilgrimage, the
harm which Israel had done to the Arab people of Palestine..

Finally, the tone in which the Israeli radio, which is
listened to here more than is acknowledged, praised the event
prompted them to formulate a few reservations, and a Damascus
newspaper went so far as to wonder whether President KENNEDY'S
assassination, the attempts made in the Council to reinstate
the Jewish people, and finally the pontifical pilgrimage were
not all part of a plot instigated by Zionism to facilitate the
diversion of the waters of the Jordan.

I did not think it necessary to report these reactions,
which were as ridiculous as they were inevitable, to the
Department, since I preferred to wait [2 gr G] adopt a position
by engaging in conversation first with the Chargé d'Affairs
of the Holy See, then with the Apostolic Internuncio, who
hurriedly returned last night from Rome. This morning, on
leaving the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Monseignor PUNZOLO
was good enough to relate to me the conversation which he had
had with the Minister. Mr. MURAYID protested in rather moderate
terms against the fact that Israel is seeking to exploit the

French 3/0/FRD/T1254-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878983 Doc Ref ID: A4268833

French 3/0/FRD/T1254-63
pilgrimage he expressed the hope that the latter, although
it is to take place partly in Israel, would not imply recognition
of that state by the Holy See. Finally, he stated that the
Syrian Government wished to invite PAUL VI to visit Damascus,
the city of Saint Paul, during his trip.

The Apostolic Internuncio told me that he had evaded this
last point by suggesting that the invitation, which will certainly
be refused, be made by the Syrian Embassy at the Holy See.
[1 gr G] gave me the impression, with regard to nonrecognition,
that he had reassured the Syrian Minister and had given him
to understand that the Holy See itself was hardly pleased
with the manner in which Israel was seeking to exploit the
Pope's pilgrimage. Talking with me on this matter, he was
altogether frank, going so far as to say that the Israelis
would be well advised not to go too far along the path which
they have entered, if they do not want to run the risk of
a serious setback and wish to avoid having made "so many
(B val noisy preparations) [2 gr G]."

I wonder, since I know a little about Rome, whether the
Holy See has addressed Tel Aviv in such plain language, but
I confess that I was surprised by that which I heard from the
mouth of a prelate who had just received his latest instructions
from the Secretariat [1 gr U) the previous day.

MS UKA-175 CN ILC TI --

-2-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
