Doc ID: 6878882
TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10054

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/CLD/T1076-63: ROBERT KENNEDY VIEWED AS LEADING CONTENDER TO [R]
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
KENNEDY, ROBERT [R]
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, 1964 [R]
CHILE, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION-

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878882
Doc Ref IT OR SECRET DINAR
Chilean CLDY WS 1038 3/0/CLD/T1076-63
IS 25 Nov 20372 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

ROBERT KENNEDY VIEWED AS LEADING CONTENDER TO SUCCEED HIS BROTHER
IN 1964

FR New York: BOSSAY 22 Nov 63
TO Santiago: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 563

Reference my telex Nr. 561((A)).

I should add that succession to the presidence falls to the
Presidency of the Senate and Senator from Texas, Vice President
LYNDON JOHNSON, who will be in office until 20 January 1965.
After the latter, it would fall to the Representative from
Massachusetts and Speaker of the House of Representatives
MACCORMACK.

The press today reported that Attorney General ROBERT KENNEDY,
brother of the late President, was in the process of leaving the
post to participate actively in his brother's presidential cam-
paign. In diplomatic circles it is believed that, in the absence
of other Democratic figures of the first rank who could aspire to
the presidency in the November 1964 election, the present Attorney
General becomes, with the death of President KENNEDY, the first
choice to succeed him for the presidential term which will begin
in January 1965.

News has just arrived that at 1438 (Eastern time) LYNDON
JOHNSON took the oath of office as President of the United States
before a federal district judge.

((A)) Not available.

MS 974 CN ILC TI --

Chilean 3/0/CLD/T1076-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
