Doc ID: 6878892
Doc Ref ID: A4268701
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM  PAGE: 1

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10073
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]

TITLE :
3/O/ARD/T483-63: KENNEDY'S DEATH FELT TO WEAKEN FOREIGN POLICY [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :
ARGENTINA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

Doc ID: 6878892
Doc Ref ID: A4268701
TOP SECRET DINAR
Argentine ARDV-3 WS 634 3/O/ARD/T483-63
IS 02 Dec 17272 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

KENNEDY'S DEATH FELT TO WEAKEN FOREIGN POLICY

FR Vienna: QUINTANA 23 Nov 63
TO Buenos Aires: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 104

The tragic death of the President of the United States
has caused great shock and uneasiness.

The first reaction from political and official circles shows
concern over an event which they feel will considerably weaken
in the next few months the international policy of the West
particularly with regard to the USSR.

I shall continue to report via air mail.

MS 974 CN ILC TI -- 3/O/ARD/T483-63

Argentine

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
