JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10213
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NEW YORK TIMES
TO :
TITLE :
OSWALD CALLS TO EMBASSIES REPORTED TAPED BY CIA
DATE: 09/21/75
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
ARTICLE IN NEW YORK TIMES RE TAPED CALLS TO SOVIET EMBASSY
DOCUMENT TYPE: NEWSPAPER
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS: 0
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 78334 Docld:34630150 Page 1

Date: 10/16/95
Page:1

4-5132 moure 4025
ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SLIP
Data
4 Jan 80
Initials Date
TO: (Name, office symbol, room number,
building, Agency/Post)
Betty Winat
240/AHA (Betty Wanat)
2.
3.
4.
5.
Action
Approval
As Requested
Circulate
Comment
Coordination
REMARKS
File
For Clearance
For Correction
For Your Information
Investigate
Justify
Note and Return
☑ Per Conversation
Prepare Reply
See Me
Signature
Cattached is the
report we died on Checking
the Oswald Papers for
The Warten Commissi
I suspect its the only
Copy. The handwritten deste
ission;
ல
DO NOT dee this form as a RECORD of approvals, concurrences, disposals,
clearances, and similar actions
FROM: (Name, org. symbol Agency/Post)
Join Dangler
Room No.-Bldg.
Phone No.
5041-102 RAYMOND J. LENGLER OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)
GPO: 1977 0-241-530 (3450)
Prescribed by GSA
FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.206

NW 78334 Docld:34630150 Page 2:

is the correct one
I added it at the
finir
f

(3٢-٢ .SA) 14 MAR JAHOITED
ABD za bad
305.11-101 )891 (14 כר
ROMI-ICE
02-5404
NW 78334 Docld:34630150 Page 3.

ing interests, nad bee
napped on Feb. 4, 1974, a few Hearst, the fiarrises
days short of a year before Mr. Yoshimura, a woman fleeing
Scott went to the Harrisburgi
police.
Continued on Page 20, Column 3:
Oswald Calls to Embassies
Reported Taped by C.I.A.
By NICHOLAS M. HORROCK
Special to The New York Times
WASHINGTON, Sept. 20-his pro-Castro activities, ever
The Central Intelligence Agen-followed up on the information.
cy secretly tape-recorded two The call to the Cuban Embas
telephone conversations be-sy, the sources said, was not
tween Lee Harvey Oswald and associated with Oswaid until
the Cuban and Soviet Embas- after the death of Mr. Kennedy.:
sies in Mexico City some eight A Federal commission headed
weeks before President Kenne-by Chief Justice Earl Warren
dy was shot to death on Nov. found that Oswald, acting
22, 1963, in Dallas, Government alone, had slain the President.
sources familiar with the
events said today.
The call to the Soviet Embas-
To Avoid Publicity
The calls were reportedly
to Mexico City in late Septem-
ber and early October, 1963.
alerted the C.I.A. to the pres-
ence of Oswald in Mexico City,
and on Oct. 10 the agency The events of this trip have
warned the Federal Bureau of never been fully made public
Investigation. There is no indi-and have been the subject of
cation that the F.B.I., which speculation for more than a
was investigating Oswald for decade.
sy, according to the sources, placed, by Oswald on a trip,
The reports of the cails are
Associated Press
for the
has been close to
the years, although
ly there has been
tween him and Pre
Mr. Khaddam is p
in Syria's efforts
the civil strife in
The Egyptian a
two men thus
weight beyond
issue.
Today, more
time a tar-size
mated at
the streets ir (
strate against t
They marched
office shoutir.
Yasir!" Demo
kind are usi:
Secretary of State Kissinger with Shimon Peres, Israeli
Defense Minister, after their meeting in Washington. Continued on
Chilean Junta Resisting (
BY JONATHAN KANDELL
Spreint to the Sew zork Times
i
ports of tor
lations of human rights.
Unemployment is at its high-in recent
production has fidence tha
version ha:
SANTIAGO, Chile. Sept. 16- est in at least four decades and because of
the latest developments in the Two years after the bloody coup industrial
that toppled the Marxist. coali-dropped sharply this year.
Today's Sections increasing speculation about that toppled the Marxist. coali-dropped sharply this year.
Section 1 (2 Parts)
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4
Section 5
Section 6
(Part 2)
Sexon 7
Section 8
Section 9
Section 10
Business and Finance!
The Week in Review
News the Warren Commission's con- tion government of President But the junta has vowed to hand, suci
Arts and Leisure clusions. Evidence that the Salvador Allende Gossens, the continue an austerity program tually be
view C.I.A. and the F.B.I. may have military junta that governs aimed almost exclusively, at and the st
Sports been less than candid with the Chile has developed a siege dampening the perennial rise in remains
Magazine commission has added to the mentality against critics of its inflation and diminishing the still abot
Report on Men's Wear questions surrounding the as harsh economic recovery pro- state's role in the economy.
oners, ac
Book Review
*Real Estate Continued on Page 49, Column 1 gram and of its continuing vio-l Arbitrary arrests and re-ment.
*Employment Advertising
Travel and Resorts
Inchuted in all copies distributed in
New York City and the suburban area.
Index to Subjects
2
4
The j
knowled
June Graduates Find More Jobs Than Expected than 1.0
Special to the New York Times
EVANSTON, Ili., Sept. 20-
rained
them," said Victor R. Lindquist, pect if
they had not even considered sought jobs have now found Lawyer
living in before.
ters,
But many have been delighted director of placement at this sing p
43 The graduating seniors in the to find that inflation has large private university's Evan-tention
16-17 class of '75, who in June were pushed starting salaries, espe-ston campus
60-63 thought to have the poorest cially for engineers and particu- "Of course, that's below the G
10
women engineers, 95 per cent or higher rate we've The
had for the past three years," has
he said. "But when you con- Chile
15 chances for employment since larly for
64 the Great Depression, are far-above last year's.
Placement directors at uni-sider how poor the prospects larly
63 Few of them were courted versities and colleges in many were this spring, it's not as has
16 ing better than the forecasters
Section
Page
Amusement News
1
52-53
By SETH S. KING
Art
2
31-32
Bridge
2
42
Chess
2
Dance
Editorial/Op-Ed
Fashions/Home Fashions 6
Film
2
Food
6
Gardens/Home Repairs
2
38,42
Letters to the Editors
4
Music/Recordings
2
17-18 had expected.
News Summary & Index
1
Obituaries
1
Photography
Puzzles
Ship Movements
1
Society
1
57-62 had
Stamps/Coins
2
36-37
Theater
2
TV/Radio
TV (Late Listings)
2
6
2
1
55
42
90% Find Jobs
by the employers this time parts of the country said this
76 Most of them had to try longer week that the majority of those
63 and harder to find a job and seniors who made the effort
5
tiat
bad as you'd expect.".
The College Placement Coun-eigr
cil of Bethlehem, Pa., in a
I
to settle for something were now employed in the survey of 156 colleges and uni-Re
less than they had hoped for. Hieids they had trained for, or versities, found that by August bil
job offers to the class of 1975 co
25: The job offers came later in something related to them.
63 in the summer than usual. And, "We've found that more than had dropped 27 per cent below vi
GFOOT IS HERE: First Factual Account.
many of 1975's graduates are 90 per cent of Northwestern's last year. Of the 6,984 seniors Se
th ned by poliz B Review page 41 now working in places that June graduates who really Continued on Page 45, Column 2 C
New York, Times
you unaay 21 kept 75
pi
NW 78334 Docld:34630150 Page 4

Continued From Page 1. Col. 2
sassination and has led to more
cails for a recpening of the in-
quiry.
The Mexico City trip was
given scant treatment in the
Warren Commission report be-
cause publication of informa-
tion about it might have ex-
posed "sources and methods"
of the C.I.A. and impaired na-
tional security, intelligence of-
ficers and commission staff
sources have said.
In response to inquiries about
the matter from The New York
Times, the C.L.A. issued an unu-
sual public statement on the.
United Press International
been no "conspiratorial tone was no promiscuous
to the conversations and one of trash then. That happens a
source called them "benign." lot now, though."
Moreover, the sources said.
the C.I.A. had information that
Personnel Cuts
Saniration personnel there
the Cubans were suspicious of have been cut from 1.450 to
and unsympathetic to Oswald. 935. They collect about 2.800
One source said the Cubans tons a day, compared with the
regarded Oswald's behavior in 24.000 tons generated daily in
returning to the United States
one
New York City.
from the Soviet Union and then
Mayor Beame's ultimatum to
asking to go back as "strange." clean up the streets within 10
Asked if anything said might days expires tomorrow at mid-
have "triggered" Oswald, a night. Some progress has been
Castro supporter, to take "retal- Sanitation Commissioner Rob-
iation" against President Ken-ert T. Groh, who resigned to-
nedy,
source said he day amid mounting public
thought not but said that he criticism of his department's!
thought Oswald had been "frus- porformarice, attributed the
trated" by the Cubans.
unsightly dirty streets and
overflowing rubbish barrels to
that there were any tape-re-wald. Their determinations, and The F.B.I. acknowledged at manpower reductions. An aver-
corded conversations but said: the raw data upon which they the Warren Commission hear age of 3.100 men is on duty
"On October 9, 1963 Central were based, along with the ings that it had "eceived intor. daily now. compared with 4.000
Intelligence Agency headquar- reports of his visit to the Soviet mation from the C.I.A. about in former years.
If more men are not hired,
ters received information that Embassy, were made to the Oswald's Mexican contact with
a person named Lee Oswald Warren and Rockefeller Com- the Sovier Embassy on Oct. 10, Mr. Groh said. "we'll just have
in to get accustomed to living
contacted the Sovier Embassy missions
all other 1963. Former F.B.I. agents in-t
in Mexico City in late Septem- materials relevant to the inves volved in the investigation said like this: our standards will
#ber or early October, 1963. In tigation of President Kennedy's'the bureau knew that Oswald have to he lowered."
Lee Harvey Oswald
matter. It would not confirm photograph of Lee Harvey Os-
transmitting the information on death."
10 October 1963 Central Intel-
as were
Known by F.B.1.
had been trying to return to the Solutions suggested in other
Three staff members of the Soviet Union.
cities included new laws and
ligence Agency headquarters Warren Commission were as Under bureau operating pro- taxes governing packaging, use
said Lee Oswald was probably signed to investigate the Mexi-edures at that time, ite F.B.I. of an all-purpose returnable
identical to Lee Henry (sic) co City trip and other matters followed up on any unexplained bottle and the painting of
Oswald, a former radar opera- involving the C.I.A. William visit by an American citizen to workers' names on sanitationi
tor in the United States Marine T. Coleman. now Secretary of Communist embassies and con-trucks to enable citizens to
Corps, born 18 October 19397ransportation; Howard P. Wil-sulater. It would have been par-hold
in New Orleans, who defected lens, a former Justice Depart-ticularly watchful in the case of sloppy work.
to the Soviet Union in 1959 ment official now in private Oswald, who had defected once.
and who, subsequently made law practice, and W. David The bureau jargon for such solution rests only in changing
arrangements to return to the Slawson, a law professor in unexplained visits was "bogies" people's behavior. City streets,
United States with a Russian California.
wife.
"This biographical data wasi;
:
them responsible for;
But others believe a real
and agents were sent to inter- said the Chicago columnist,
Mir. Coleman said in a tele-! view the person on why he or Mike Royko. "are as clean as
phone interview that he wasch Sishe had been in contact with the Communists. The only rea- son people in that neighborhood
From F.B.I. Reports "disturbed" about the possibil- the Communists. The only rea- son this was not done in Os- want thent to be."
might be harmed by recent wald's case, these sources said; Mr.. Powers of Keep America
based upon Federal Bureau of ity that United State security
may have been because he was Beautiful professes optimism.
Investigation reports provided disclosures of F.B.I. and C.I.A.
already under an F.B.1. security The fiscal crises of the nation's
to Central Intelligence Agency activities. But he acknowledged
that he and other staff mem- investigation in connection with cities, he said, are making more
following Oswld's defection to that he and other staff mem- investigation in connection with cities, he said, are making more
bers had received information pro-Castro activities.
the Soviet Union.
MAMA
"This information was also from the C.I.A. on Oswald's pro-Castro activities.
people aware that they can not
rely on government to solve all
The bureau's formal response their problems.
provided to the Immigration activities in Mexico, and they
and Naturalization Service, the did not run counter to the to these questions was to refer: "This is a very, very slow
Department of the Navy, the commission's conclusion that to the Warren Commission re-iprocess," he said. "I'm not sug-
United States Ambassador and Oswald, acting alone. killed port. In the report it was noted gesting there is a big move-
This staff in Mexico and to the President Kennedy and a Dallas that James P. Hosty Jr., special ment across the country and
Representative of the F.B.I. in police officer, J. J. Tippitt.
Mexico.
"Following the assassination
Sure Others Learned
of President Kennedy, Central sur. Coleman said he was
that J. Lee Rankin, the
Intelligence Agency records re- Warren Commission's chief
counsel, had been informed of
vealed that a person believed
to be. Oswald was in contact the C.I.A.. Mexico City data
with the Cuban Embassy on and that "at least two or three
27 September 1963 for the pur commission members" knew.
pose of receiving a transit visa He could not remember if the
for use enroute to the U.S.S.R. commission had ever discussed.
"In addition a number of the matter in executive session.
photographs of individuals be- Mr. Willens and Mr. Slawson
Jieved to be in contact with declined to make public com-
the Cuban and. Soviet Embas-ment.
siés in Mexico City were Sources familiar with the
ceived from the Central Intelli- contents of the tapes said that
gence Agency station in Mexico Oswald had been seeking a
and were compared with pic- transit visa from Cuban offi-
tures of Lee Harvey Oswald cials and that he had been.
by C.L.A. officers in Mexico "rebuffed." One source said that:
City and C.J.A. headquarters the call to the Soviet Embassy
and by United States authori-had been an effort to get help
ties in Dallas, Texas.
in furthering his application
"It was determined that none at the Cuban Embassy.
of these photographs was the These sources said there had
agent of the Dallas field office, we will have the situation
attempted to interview Oswald cleaned up in five years. But
about his Cuban activities on there is a new attitude, and
Nov. 1.
I am encouraged."
