Doc ID: 6878862
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE:03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10084
PAGE: 1
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/NED/T10-63: REPORT FROM WASHINGTON IN IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF [R]
DATE: 12/04/63
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS:
THE NETHERLANDS, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
[R]
TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878862 Doc. Ref ID: A4268711
TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/NED/T10-63
Netherland NEDY WS 326
IS 04 Dec 19052 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

REPORT FROM WASHINGTON IN IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF PRESIDENT'S
DEATH

FR Washington: KORTEWEG, 3900 16th St., 26 Nov 63
NW --
TO The Hague: GEPEDE((A))
Msg Nr: --

Prince BERNHARD left Washington on Monday evening, since
he had to be back in the Netherlands early Tuesday without fail.
Before leaving, he was able to see Mrs. KENNEDY, who received
all the distinguished guests in the White House after the funeral.
The Prince was treated with especial courtesy by the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force General LEMAY, who called in person at the
Embassy to take him to the airport, where he made a plane available
to fly him direct to Zolsterberg.

Princess BEATRIX, after visiting the White House, attended
the reception at the State Department, where she spoke at some
length with Mrs. JOHNSON, who was seated between the Dutch
Princess and Queen FREDERIKA of Greece.

Mr. LUNS left at about 1300 on Tuesday. We had a brief
talk with him that morning. He believes that RUSK will now come
more to the fore, because of JOHNSON's previous preoccupation
with domestic politics. He considers it a favorable omen that
the new President recently spent three days in Holland. LUNS
assumes that there will be no abrupt change in American policy,
but one must be prepared to note nuances. Officially, JOHNSON
has always conformed to KENNEDY's policies, but he has always
been a few degrees more conservative, and it remains to be seen
how much of his earlier outlook will carry over.

3/0/NED/T10-63
/
Netherland

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 3 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878862
Doc ReTOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/NED/T10-63
Netherland

The White House atmosphere will undoubtedly change, for it is
hard to believe that personal collaborators of KENNEDY such as
BUNDY and SCHLESINGER will be on the JOHNSON team. The influence
of ROSTOW, the planning head in the State Department, could decline,
as will, of course, that of ROBERT KENNEDY.

At the Monday evening reception in the State Department,
JOHNSON had a cordially interested greeting for each guest.
He had a two-handed handshake for LUNS, who was a accompanied by
the Princess and VAN ROIJEN. The former received hearty applause
from the crowd when she left the building.

Americans are deeply appreciative of DE GAULLE's coming
to Washington, but LUNS has not got the impression that there
will be a change in the American attitude toward France.

At the reception, LUNS had rather long conversations with
ERHARD and Indonesian Defense Minister NASUTION, with which he
was very satisfied. ERHARD had just visited Paris, and it can
easily be guessed what he and LUNS talked about.

LUNS will remain Wednesday in New York. He will arrive in
Amsterdam on Thursday morning and go direct to Strassburg, where
the European Parliament seems quite anxious that he speak as
soon as possible.

On Tuesday, RUSK had talks with several important visitors,
including MIKOYAN, ERHARD, and HOME. He also received a group
of Latin American representatives. In all these talks the
President ((B)) assured his guests that American policy toward
their countries would not change.

On the same day, many people visited President KENNEDY's
grave across the river. Queen FREDERIKA laid an olive wreath
as a symbol of peace.

On Wednesday, President JOHNSON will deliver to the
Congress a speech which is awaited with interest. However, it
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doe ID: 6878862 Doc Ref ID: A4268711
TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/NED/T10-63
Netherland

does not seem likely that he will hold a press conference this
week, since Thursday is Thanksgiving Day. This was originally
a festival of thanks for the harvest, and later became a day of
general thanksgiving. This year it will be an unprecedentedly
somber day for America. What one can be thankful for at this
moment is that political institutions provide for a quick and
peaceful take-over in the event of the sudden death of the
President.

((A)) Cable address of newspaper Grote Provinciele Dagblad.
((B)) As in text.

MS 974 CN ILC TI
--
-3-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
