Doc ID: 6878990
Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10317
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/ITD/T3564-63 ITALIAN REPORT ON MIKOYAN TALKS IN THE UNITED STATES [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878990
Doc Ref ID: A4268852
TOP SECRET DINAR

Italian ITDP WS 12404 3/0/ITD/T3564-63
IS 02 Dec 1935Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

ITALIAN REPORT ON ΜΙΚΟΥΑΝ TALKS IN THE UNITED STATES

FR Washington: FENOALTEA 29 Nov 63
TO Rome: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 1454

On the subject of the conversation which MIKOYAN had with
President JOHNSON, the Department told us that it does not yet
have a record of the conversation. As far as our interlocutor
knew the conversation was of a general nature. MIKOYAN, after
expressing the sincere sorrow of the head of the Soviet Govern-
ment and the entire Soviet population for the tragic death of
President KENNEDY, expressed hope that relations between the
two countries could continue to develop peacefully in conformity
with the KENNEDY policy. President JOHNSON gave assurances that
it is his firm intention to keep the preceding line of policy
unaltered.

MIKOYAN then met with RUSK.

The conversation lasted about an hour. The Department told
us that MIKOYAN began by repeating the ideas expressed to JOHNSON,
and RUSK assured him that the change of Presidents did not mean
a change in the foreign policy of the United States. In spite of
the fact that the two countries have different positions on many
international questions--RUSK continued--it is necessary to
explore the area of common interests even if it is not possible
to conclude formal agreements.

The conversation was then devoted to problems of disarmament,
limitation of the arms race, and reduction of military expenditures.
Particular importance was given to the question of nondissemination
Italian 3/0/ITD/T3564-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878990
Doc Ref ID: A4268852

Italian TOP SECRET DINAR- 3/0/ITD/T3564-63

of nuclear arms. On this last aspect MIKOYAN repeated the well-
known Soviet thesis concerning the incompatibility between an
agreement on nondissemination and the establishment of a NATO
multilateral force.

Bilateral problems were then briefly mentioned and RUSK
expressed hope that discussions on a consular agreement and
negotiations on cultural exchange can be fruitful.

RUSK then concluded the talk by affirming that, on the
broader international problems, the United States will discuss
the Western position with its allies in December.

MS -- CN TI --

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
