Doc ID: 6878915
TOP SECRET UMBRA PATE:03/24/97
PAGE:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10109
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO [R]

TITLE :
3/0/FRD/T1269-63: SEMINAR ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND PEACE MEETS IN INDIA [R]
DATE: 12/31/63
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
FRANCE, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
INDIA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

TOP SECRET DINAR
Dơc ID: 6878915 Doc Ref ID. A4268743
French FRDBT WS 10245, 3/0/FRD/T1269-63
 10214-15, IS 31 Dec 63 P
 10246 Dist: HCO
 ST 300

SEMINAR ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND PEACE MEETS IN INDIA

FR New Delhi: GARNIER 9 Dec 63
TO Paris: The Department
Msg Nr: 1518-21
[4-part message complete]

 The conference on foreign affairs and peace organized by
the "Committee of Indian Parliamentarians for Peace" (my
telegram Nr. 1418((A))) was opened on Saturday by the Prime
Minister, who dwelt on the beneficent effects of the lessening
of tension between East and West and on the necessity that the
efforts in this direction should not be interrupted as a
consequence of President KENNEDY's assassination. He repeated
the Indian Government's attachment to the policy of nonalignment
despite Chinese aggression, which it had been obliged to stop
by force, and pointed out that it is not enough to denounce war,
but that it is advisable to find means to prevent it.

 The only foreign representatives -- despite the efforts
of DIWAN CHAMAN LALL, who incidentally had asked me to obtain
messages from President DE GAULLE, Mr. POMPIDOU, and Your
Excellency and to whom I replied that it is not our tradition
to send them to meetings of this type -- are Soviet, Yugoslav,
Ceylonese and British. Moreover, Madame NIKOLAEVA, member of
the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, brought congratulations only
from the nongovernmental organization. Yugoslavia delegated
Mr. VILFAN, former ambassador to New Delhi. Mr. GREENWOOD,
Chairman of the Labor Party, read a communication from
Mr. HAROLD WILSON but made it clear that he was participating

French 3/0/FRD/T1269-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

TOP SECRET DINAR
"Doc ID: 6878915 Doc Ref ID: A4268743
French 3/0/FRD/T1269-63
 in the seminar as a private individual.

 As for the Indians, the (B val leading voices) are on the
whole either crypto-communist or left-wing members of Parliament.
We might name Mrs. ARUNA ASAF ALI among the former and
Mr. MALAVIYA, former Minister of Fuel, and (B val Mr. KRISHNA
MENON) among the latter. The last-named, in his speech, made
a point of stating that in spite of the provocations of China
and Pakistan, India was maintaining her peaceful policy. He
observed that there can be disarmament or peace only to the
extent that there is a rapprochement between the USSR and the
United States: "The more these two powers work together, the
better it will be for the world."

((A)) Not available.

MS UKF-120 CN ILC TI --

 -2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
