Doc ID: 6878878
TOP SECRET UMBRA
Doc Ref ID: A4268680
DATE: 03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10052
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T1919-63: REPORT ON CUBA'S INTERNAL PROBLEMS WITH REBELS
DATE: 11/22/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CASTRO, FIDEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878878
Doc Ref ID: A4268680

TOP SECRET DINAR

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 348 3/0/W/T1919-63
22 Nov 63

REPORT ON CUBA'S INTERNAL PROBLEMS WITH REBELS

FR Warsaw: Ministry of Foreing Affairs 10 Oct 63 [M]
TO New York: Polish Mission to the UN Routine
Msg. Nr. 11512

For the Chief of Mission

On 7 October CUIRUS reported from Havana:

Comments on FIDEL's speech of 28 September. Cuba's foreign policy and its
attitude toward the Moscow Treaty are determined by the aggressive activities of
the United States. General relaxation may not be applicable to the Caribbean area.

1. The coups in Honduras and the Dominican Republic, and the rise of
reactionaries in Venezuela, he ties in with coordination of operations against
Cuba by the CIA from Central America.

2. Smuggling of arms to the capitol is on the increase. The underground
is switching to a long-range harassment supported by pirate activities from the
outside. In September the government carried out massive military operations in
the Escambray and Matanza areas.

3. The Cuban counterrevolutionaries and Cubans from Central America
announce heavier underground traffic in men and arms for November and December.

4. I believe that the approaching Presidential elections in the United
States will strengthen reactionary forces from within and without. Immediate US
aggression is out of the question. Therefore, there is a need for a strong gorilla
[sic] collar around Cuba. Simultaneously, the economic blockade is being intensi-
fied. This is dictated by the consequent "anti-imperialistic lines of our own
foreign policy." On the whole, in their opinion, relaxation is due to the peace-
ful policy pursued by the Soviet Union, but they attribute this, first of all, to
their own position.

MS MATCHRZAK
CN TI

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
