Doc ID: 6879058 Doc Ref ID: SECRET MORAY DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10300
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
2X/O/GUD/T2420-63 CUBAN INSTRUCTIONS ON MOURNING DEATH OF PRESIDENT KE [R]
DATE : 11/24/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879058 Doc Ref ID: A4268821

SECRET SABRE
2X/O/CUD/T2420-63
IS 24 Nov 17112 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET
0/27207-63

CUBAN INSTRUCTIONS ON MOURNING DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Havana: ROA 23 Nov 63
TO Circular (Accra: Cuban Embassy)((A)) --
Msg Nr: 7453

If the Government decrees a period of mourning, comply with
the existing protocol standards.

Inform the consulates.

((A)) This is a circular message sent also to the Cuban missions
in Algiers, Bamako, Beirut, Belgrade, Berlin, Bern,
Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Cairo, Colombo, Copenhagen,
Djakarta, Geneva, The Hague, Hanoi, Helsinki, Karachi,
London, Moscow, New Delhi, Oslo, Paris, Paris (UNESCO),
Peking, Pyongyang, Rabat, Rome, Rome (FAO), Sofia, Tel Aviv,
Tokyo, Ulan Bator, Vatican City, and Vienna.

GROUP 1 PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 36 CN ILC TI 24 Nov 63 06282
Cuban CUDY WS 17262 2X/O/CUD/T2420-63

0/27207-63

PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
