Doc ID: 6878860 Doc Ref ID: A4268683 MOHAY
-
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10055
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA [R]
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/MXN/T01-63: MEXICO DECLARES PERIOD OF NATIONAL MOURNING FOR [R]

DATE : 11/23/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
MATEOS, LOPEZ, ADOLFO [R]
MEXICO, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878860 Doc Ref ID: A4268683

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/MXN/T01-63
IS 23 Nov 20512 P
Dist: HCF
ST 260

SECRET
0/27205-63
MEXICO DECLARES PERIOD OF NATIONAL MOURNING FOR PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR [Mexico City]: FERNANDO LUCIÓ, 22 Νοv 63
Secretary of the Navy
TO [Circular] Urgent
Msg Nr: 53283

The President of the Republic, Lic. ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS,
has declared three days of national mourning for the death
of the President of the United States of America, JOHN F. KENNEDY.
All kinds of entertainment and social functions have been
suspended, with the national flag at half mast during the 23rd,
24th and 25th of this month.

PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)
GROUP 1
SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 66 CN MXNB 50101 TI --
Mexican MXNY WS 01 2X/O/MXN/T01-63

0/27205-63
PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
