Doc ID: 6878943 Doc Ref ID: A4268789 DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10284
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/CED/T01-64 CAMBODIAN CONDITIONS FOR PHILIPPINE SOLUTION TO AMERIC [R]
DATE: 01/01/64
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
Please Enter Text.
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DAV FM INSA/CSS Manu
Dated: 24 Fox
DECL ON: X1,X3,X6,
Please Enter

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878943 Doc Ref ID: A4268789 10284

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CED/T01-64
IS Ø1 Jan 14302 P
Dist: HCF

SECRET 0/6051-64

CAMBODIAN CONDITIONS FOR PHILIPPINE SOLUTION ΤΟ
AMERICAN-CAMBODIAN DISPUTE

FR Phnom Penh: MINAFERES
TO Manila: ΑΜΒΑΚΗMER* 31 Dec 63 1801

559 DGP

Reference your cables 12ª and 13а.

I have the honor to inform you that during an audience on
23 December 1963, the Philippine Ambassador offered His Royal
Highness the good offices of President MACAPAGAL to resolve the
Cambodian-American différences. Out of Cambodia's friendship for
the Philippines, His Royal Highness accepted the good offices offered,
but not mediation, as was reported in the Philippine radio and press.

Conditions: 1) Ambassador YOST, who termed an alleged declara-
tion from the Information Ministry barbarous, withdraw this expression

GROUP - 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECRET PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(S)
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 57 CN ILC TI 31 Dec 63 12052
Cambodian P/L WS 31-CXX-18863 2X/O/CED/TØ1-64
[French]

0/6051-64

PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(S)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878943 Doc Ref ID: A4268789 10284

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CED/TØ1-64

SECRET 0/6051-64

and apologize to the Royal Government. This condition was not
demanded of the State Department itself, but of Mr. YOST.
2) Ambassador SPROUSE must stop his investigation to find out
whether the Royal Government and the Khmer people rejoiced over
the death of President KENNEDY.

Therefore, no American Cambodian negotiations are under Philippine
mediation.

The Royal Government was not aware of the proposal to hold
the negotiations in Manila.

a. Not available..

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET

a. See 3/0/CED/T242-63 for 13.

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
-SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
