Doc ID: 6878913
Doc Ref ID: A4268738
TOP SECRET UMBRA
AGENCY: NSA
Ref A4268738
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10104
DATE:03/24/97
PAGE: 1
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : NSA
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
[R]
TITLE :
DATE: 12/17/63
3/0/ITD/T3750-63: SYRIANS CLAIM ZIONISTS RESPONSIBLE FOR DEATH OF
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
ITALY, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY
ARAB WORLD, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION
[R]
[R]
:
[R]
[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc Ref ID: A4268738
Doc. ID: 6878913
TOP SECRET DINAR

Italian ITDO WS 30895 3/0/ITD/T3750-63
IS 17 Dec 20192 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SYRIANS CLAIM ZIONISTS RESPONSIBLE FOR DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Damascus: PERRONE CAPANO 29 Nov 63
TO Rome: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 413

The Syrian regime, always in search of new anti-Zionist
arguments, has found, in the murder of President KENNEDY,
material for a rather unorthodox interpretation of the lamentable
event.

According to the Ba'thist organ, the murder of the
(B val President) must be attributed to Zionism, which is really
responsible and which is now trying to cover up the misdeed.
The pro-government daily paper Al Thawra also asserts that
Zionism had a principal role in the event in Dallas.

MS UKA-175 CN ILC TI --

Italian 3/0/ITD/T3750-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
