Doc ID: 6879053 Doc REFOPUSECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10359
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/TRIG-VNP/T47-63 REPORT OF VIET CONG PROPAGANDA PLAN TO REPRESENT [R]
DATE: 12/05/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879053 Doc Ref ID: A4269392

TOP SECRET DINAR
US/UK/AUSTRALIAN EYES ONLY
TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION
Vietnamese VNPAE WS 22-0049-63 3/0/TRIG-VNP/T47-63
(South) IS 05 Dec 22592 P
Dist: HCF

REPORT OF VIET CONG PROPAGANDA PLAN TO REPRESENT PRESIDENT
KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION AS REPUDIATION OF U.S. ROLE IN VIET NAM

FR [M] 27 Nov 63 1430G
ΤΟ [Μ] Z
Msg Nr: 1094/BD/CTSV/M/4

Reference Message Number 53/BAN/CTS((A)) of 15 November 1963.

I have the honor to report the situation (1 gr U]:

A. (C val The attacks) of the Viet Cong according to
[2 gr U] to supply, then the Viet Cong will propagandize by
misrepresenting the various (1 gr U) of President KENNEDY for
the following reasons; [they will propagandize against]
President KENNEDY because he decided to send more than 4000
American troops to Viet Nam, bringing the [total) number to
more than 16,000. This number of troops in combat could not
be borne further (1gr G) because the struggle in Viet Nam
was unjustified, and it was for that reason that President
KENNEDY was (3 val assassinated).
At
Relying on this explanation, they maintain that they
are certain to be victorious in the struggle in Viet Nam because
it is the American troops who have been fighting the war.
present my office is studying a plan to counteract this propa-
ganda,

Vietnamese 3/0/TRIG-VNP/T47-63
(South)

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

US/UK/AUSTRALIAN EYES ONLY
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Dọc ID: 6879053 Doc Ref ID: A4269392
TOP SECRET DINAR
Vietnamese 3/O/TRIG-VNP/T47-63
(South)

B. The activity of the counter-revolutionary gang is nil.

C. The general situation is unimpeded.

((A)) Not available.

FR 29 TO 30 OR 1BR AD 9KU

MS 962Q CN VNRB 30101 TI 27 Nov 63 04202
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
