Doc ID: 6879043 Doc Ref ID: A4269407 DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
TOP SECRET UMBRA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10372
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO :
TITLE :
3/0/W/T2043-63 POLES ASKED TO NAME HOSPITAL IN POLAND IN HONOR OF PRES [R]
DATE : 12/03/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879043 Doc Ref ID: A4269407

TOP SECRET DINAR

***NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION***
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in
whole or in part is prohibited
except as specifically authorized
by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish PLDX-10 WS 397 3/0/W/T2043-63
3 Dec 63

POLES ASKED TO NAME HOSPITAL IN POLAND IN HONOR OF KENNEDY

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN 29 Nov 63 111
TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs Urgent
Msg. Nr. 502

For WINIEWICZ.

Senators [sic] HUMPHREY and ROMNEY, members of the committee to build a
hospital in Krakow and both friendly to us, requested BIERNACKI to see whether
it will be possible to name the hospital in Krakow in honor of KENNEDY.
According to BIERNACKI they are trying, in good faith, to have a hospital built
in Wroclaw. I gave Comrade JAROSZEWICZ a note on this subject.

MS CN TI
DROZNIAK

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
