Doc ID: 6878894
Doc Ref
SEGRET SPOKE
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1
--
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10067
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/MXD/T254-63: MEXICO DECREES 3-DAY MOURNING PERIOD; FOREIGN [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
MEXICO, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878894
Doc Ref ID: A4268695
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/MXD/T254-63
IS 24 Nov 17092 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300
SECRET
MEXICO DECREES 3-DAY MOURNING PERIOD;
FOREIGN MINISTER TO ATTEND FUNERAL

FR Mexico City: Foreign Ministry 23 Nov 63
TO Ankara ((A)): Mexican Embassy
Msg Nr: 53081
0/27210-63

By airmail, we are sending you information regarding
manifestations of the sorrow of the Government of Mexico because
of the assassination of President KENNEDY, consisting of messages
to President LYNDON B. JOHNSON, Secretary RUSK and Mrs. KENNEDY,
as well as a decree declaring a three-day period of official
mourning.

The Foreign Minister will attend, as the personal representative
of our Chief Executive, the funeral ceremonies which will be held
this coming Monday in Washington.
((A)) This is a circular message, sent also to Belize.
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)

MS 36 CN ILC ΤΙ 24 Νον 63 01442

Mexican MXDY WS 2784 ✓ 2X/O/MXD/T254-63

0/27210-63
PAGE 1 of 1. PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
