Doc ID: 6878936 Doc Ref ID: A4268778 DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10273
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USAF
FROM: USA-751
TO: DIRNSA
TITLE : DISCUSSION OF ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY - CORRECTED COPY
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS: ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

DocID: 6878936 Doc Ref ID: A4268778

CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
143
Fom

ZCZCHAB9561DA991 (('' ΔΔΔΔΔ
OO YEKAAH
DE YFIDS V
ZK ZK 00 ORA DE
THIS IS A CORRECTED COPY X PSE DESTROY PREVIOUS XMNS X
" '''''۵۵۵۵Δ
OO YEKAAH
DE YFIDDA 67 23/08 50Z NOV
ZKZK 00 ORA DE
Ο 230849Z ZYH
FM USA-751
TO DIRNSA
ZEM
SECRET KIMBO
FROM OPN-SWC 23-11-239
FOLLOWING INFO PASSED FOR YOUR INFO:
Ο 230819Z ZYH
FM USA-73
TO USA-751
ZEM
SECRETKIMBO
BTWN 0730/0735Z, 23N063. RUSS MERCURY GAASS FACS REFLD
TWO UNID OPERATORS AT TWO UNID STAS PROB AT GERA EAST
GERMANY DISCUSSING THE ASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.
ONE OPERATOR STATED: "YESTERDAY I HEARD ABOUT IT. THERE

This work sheet contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U. S. C.,
Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission or the revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
ار
ر
CLASSIFIED WOOY CLUEET
THIS CODE 100 TRIAL こつこつく こつこつこ

FATED
CAR wiin his wife. HE WAS RIDING IN SOME PROVINCE (OF U.S.)
DO DO AN87SOME KIND OF TOWNOCIRef IDEXA235877HE WAS (1GP) THERE. THEY
( WERE DEPENDING ON HIM. HE WAS SUPPOSED TO APPEAR IN A
CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
CERTAIN TOWN. THERE WERE SUPPOSED TO BE ELECTIONS NEXT YEAR.
THEY HAVE MANY PARTIES THERE, I GUESS. WE'LL SEE WHAT
IS WRITTEN IN THE PAPERS."
COMMENTS: ACTY REPRESENTS OPERATOR CHATTER AND DOES NOT
INDICATE ANY CHANGE IN POSTURE OF RELATIONS.
TCH INFO:
1. RZBC00501
2. 59.990MCS/M Ø10 DEG ABLE
3. UNSUB (PROB SAM RELATED NET AT GERA)
CLASSIFIED
4. U/I-1
5. T/U/1-2
1550
اب
ΛΑΚΤΗ
1.11
ססססס
:
H12 12 V COBBEC LED СОБА Х БИЕ БЕРЛИСА ЬВЕЛІСПЕ ХКИЕ Х
KSK COOKV DE
TE ALIDEA
OD AEK VE
SCSCHBEREIDVEST (( ८०८00

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
C
National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U. S. C.,
or the revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
