Doc ID: 6878889
----
TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 03/26/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10071
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/BVD/T226-63: BOLIVIAN UN DELEGATE REPORTS KENNEDY WAS A GREAT
DATE: 12/04/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
BOLIVIA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc Ref TOP SECRET DINAR
Doc ID: 6878889 A4268699

Bolivian BVDY WS 1121 3/O/BVD/T226-63
IS 04 Dec 19512 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

BOLIVIAN UN DELEGATE REPORTS KENNEDY WAS GREAT FRIEND OF BOLIVIA

FR New York: VELARDE DORADO 23 Nov 63
TO La Paz: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: N/N

For the Foreign Minister.

Real shock exists over the assassination of President
KENNEDY. Television, via Telstar, is showing touching
demonstrations in Europe.

The Chiefs of State from many countries will attend the
funeral services.

It is my personal opinion that your attendance would be
advisable in view of the fact that the new martyr to human
rights was a great friend of Bolivia and was convinced of the
grandeur and hopes of the national revolution.

Cordially,

MS 974 CN ILC TI --

Bolivian 3/O/BVD/T226-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
