SECRET MORAY
Doc ID: 6879066 Doc Ref ID: A4269440 DATE: 09/11/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10168
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO : HCO
TITLE :
2X/0/CUD/T2440-63 HAVANA VERIFIES OSWALDS REQUEST/TRANSIT VISA/RUSSIA [R]
DATE : 11/26/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
VISA NEVER GRANTED -ERT-
DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : C
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.
JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91

SECRET MORAY-

Doc ID: 6879066 Doc Ref ID: A4269440
SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CUD/T2440-63
IS 28 Nov 19492 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET
0/27247-63

MINREX, HAVANA VERIFIES OSWALD'S REQUEST FOR TRANSIT VISA FOR RUSSIA

FR Havana: MINREX 26 Nov 63
TO Circular [Warsaw: Cuban Embassy]((A)) --
Msg Nr: 7482

MINREX reported yesterday that the information in the newspaper
Excelcior of Mexico City concerning LEE OSWALD's request for a transit
visa to go to the USSR, which was requested from the Cuban Consulate
in Merida, is true. This visa was requested 27 September from said
consulate, which stated that it could not grant the visa without
permission of MINREX, and unless permission had been granted pre-
viously by the country of destination. OSWALD gave up annoying the
consulate, and the visa was never granted.

This detail, and others, confirm the suspicion that the KENNEDY
assassination was a provocation against world peace by the most re-
actionary sectors. It is evident that these sectors planned
GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 19 CN ILC ΤΙ 27 Nov 63 13072

Cuban CUDY WS 17303 2X/O/CUD/T2440-63

0/27247-63
PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.
JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879066 Doc Ref ID: A4269440
SECRET SABRE

2X/O/CUD/T2440-63

SECRET
0/27247-63
beforehand to involve Cuba and the USSR in the acts. The inconceiv-
able impunity of a person who, with a known police record could
murder OSWALD in the presence of the police in a prison basement,
demonstrates the scandalous means which reactionary forces are
using in the United States to cover up the perpetrators and the
motives for KENNEDY's assassination. World-wide public opinion
demands a clarification of the facts. It is absurd that the Dallas
District Attorney is closing the case of the death of the President
scarcely 48 hours after the deed.

((A)) Same text sent to Cuban Embassies in Conakry, Prague, Accra,
Cairo and Algiers. Similar text sent to Cuban Embassy
Mexico City.

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
-DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.
JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
