Doc ID: 6878930
ID: A4268766
SPOKE
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10138
DATE:03/24/97
PAGE: 1
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
-
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: YEATES, EUGENE F.
TO :
TITLE :
ACTIONS TAKEN BY NSA TO LOCATE INFORMATION RELATED TO THE ASSASSINATIO
DATE: 06/15/78
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
SIGINT
NSA
OSWALD, LEE, PROPOSED RUSSIAN TRIP (1963) [R]
OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO [R]
CUBA, COMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878930
Doc Ref ID: A4268766
TOP SECRE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 15 June 1978
SUBJECT: Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Related
to the Assassination of President Kennedy

A. Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NSA has
performed a number of separate in-depth reviews of materials in
its files in an attempt to isclate data that might be relevant
to the assassination of President Kennedy. Nothing of significance
has been determined as a result of those reviews.

1. November-December 1963 Immediately after the
assassination, NSAinitiated a large-scale manual and machine
review of available SIGINT, including all U.S./Cuba traffic (NSA
intercepted messages at an average of 1,000 per day at that time).
A computer search was initiated using Oswald's name as the minimum
for research criteria. Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/New
Orleans and Cuba/Dallas was manually reviewed (an analyst involved
recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,
along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet traffic). Sometime
during the search, items from the Oswald address book provided by
the FBI were added to the search criteria.

2. 1964 - Warren Commission The Commission, in the
person of Allan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits for any
secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the
documents. It also appears that NSA searched records for information
on the basis of other Warren Commission requests made informally
by Alien Dulies.

3. November 1975 Senate Select Committee to Study
Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,
NSA reviewed its Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military.
The search was also for material involving Marina Oswald, Jack Ruby
or Earl Ruby (a Harvest run was made). Mexican traffic was also
reviewed, looking for information concerning Oswald's visit to
Mexico.

4. June 1976 Pursuant to FOIA requests asking for
material relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878930
Doc Ref ID: A4268766
TOP SECRE

of President John F. Kennedy, NSA again searched the files.
Strongbox searches were made on the following:

Lee Harvey Oswald 1966 1976
Assassination of
President Kennedy 1966 1976
Earl Ruby 1966 1977
Cobo Cleaners 1966 1977

5. December 1976 Senate Select Committee on Intelli-
gence (SSCI) Requested all the material we had available on the
Cuban agent problem, It consisted of 485 reports for the period
1961 1965. All of these reports were received by Committee
Staff Members.

5. March 1978 House Select Committee on Assassination:
Requested all data on Cuban intelligence network and other materia.
relating to the Assassination. All Cuban agent material (1961
was reviewed, as was material that had been previously compiled to
respond to the SSCI and SSC requests.

B. As a result of the reviews described above, the following
materials which may have some relevance to the assassination were
located (referenced material inclosed at numbered tabs):

1. Four Cuban diplomatic messages which contained
official Cuban comments regarding press items that discussed Oswald'
activity in late September 1963 to obtain a visa to travel to
Moscow. There were also comments on the assassination itself.
The messages are dated in the last week of November 1963.

2. Three Cuban military reports which show that Cuban
military forces did go on alert immediately after the assassination.

3. One 1962 Cuban Intelligence) message concerning the
assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto
Rico) SERAFIN.

4. One 1966 Cuban Diplomatic message concerning a Spanish
diplomaty in Cuba. It referenced a 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate
an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against Raul Castro Ruz, possibly
linking it to the CIA.

5. Information in an FBI document relating to a French
Intelligence agent was supplied by NSA. Because this document
was to be turned over to the HASC, there may be some relation
to the assassination.

6. One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim
Garrison's investigation of both the Kennedy Assassination and
David W. Ferrie.
2
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878930
Doc Ref ID: A4268766
TOP SECRE

c. Based on these extensive reviews and the paucity of
material derived, it is possible to state that: "A thorough
review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or
suggesting Cuban involvement in the assassination of President
Kennedy."

Incl:
a/s
Eugenes. Yeater..
EUCINE F. YEATES
Chief D1

TOP SECRET
HARIBICHWA COMINT PHAUNTIS ONIY
VIA COMINT CILANNELS
GIALLO UNLI נגווושט או בטחון
3
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
