Doc ID: 6879076 Doc Ref ID: A4269453 DATE: 09/12/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10185

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HSCA

TITLE :
G09-728-78 BLAKEY REQUEST FOR CUBAN COMMS DURING MAR/APR 1962

DATE: 07/31/78
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS:
REQUEST FOR INFO ON COBO CLEANERS AND EARL RUBY

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM/LETTER
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET
Doc ID: 6879076 Doc Ref ID:. A4269453 UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 31 July 1978 memorandum

REPLY TO Serial: G09/728-78
ATTN OF: G09 Jones/G09/3596s/dla

SUBJECT: Request by Mr. Blakey for Access to Cuban
Communications During March and April of 1962

TO: LAO

THRU: V

1. In response to Mr. Blakey's request of access to all communications
between Cobo Cleaners of Detroit, Michigan and Cuba in March and April
of 1962 the G offices were asked to examine all pertinent files to determine
whether or not copies of the requested communications existed. This
examination resulted in the following determinations:

a) In 1962 the only record copy storage media used by the G
offices were page print and microfilm.

b) Consistant with Agency regulations pertaining to records storage,
all materials, other than product, for 1962 were destroyed.

c) Therefore, no raw traffic data base exists which would include
private communications to or from Cuba for the period March/April of 1962.

2. Based on the foregoing, the information sought would exist, if at all,
at NSA only in the form of product based on the relevant communications. No
product files for the period involved exist within G Group.

E. W. BLAKE
Chief, 609

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

SECRET
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
(REV. 7-76)
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879076 Legislave Affairs 4269453

3 August 1978
S. Raskin/LAO/3747
TO: DIR

SUBJECT: Request from House Assassinations
Committee

1. Attached memo provides the response
to Ms. Judy Miller's request that NSA
search for records the Committee was
interested in.

2. A thorough search was made with
negative results. Memos from V, T12 and
G attached.

3. With your approval, the memo and
attachment will be forwarded to Ms. Miller.

EUGENE F. YEATES

cc: D/DIR

Incl:
a/s

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS
CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR.
MLK, JR.

SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

ORTIONAL FORM NO. 10
Doc ID: 68796469
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6 Doc Ref ID: ASECRETO
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : LAO, Attn: Mr. Eugene Yeates DATE: 28 JUL 1978

FROM : T12

SUBJECT: Search of the SIGINT Record File

1. In response to your oral request of 26 July 1978, and in consonance with
guidelines provided in discussion between Mr. Raskin and Mr. Sobel of your office
and T124 people, we have made a search as described below of open series SIGINT
product records available in the NSA SIGINT Repository with negative results.
It must be understood that some serials in the series are missing but that neither
the existance nor non-existance of product produced against those serials can be
verified.

2. All 1962 open series NSA produced SIGINT product in the QOC International
Commercial, QOF International Travel, and QOY International Miscellaneous series,
was scanned and product with date of information March or April 1962, was further
searched for the following keywords: EARL/JACK RUBY
COBO CLEANERS
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
PRESIDENT KENNEDY
SERAFIN
VICIENCIA
OSWALD

3. T124 spent approximately twenty man-hours accomplishing the above.

ROBERY J. WELDAY
Chief, T12

Hasettled by DIRNSA/CHOSS (NSA/CSOM 123-2),
Exempt from ADS, 10 11652, Cat........
Dostaccity Upon Notification by the Originstor

SECRET

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

DocID: 6879076 Doc Ref ID:A4269453

M/R: On 26 July Mr. Yeates of the NSA Legislative Affairs Office, with concurrence
from Mr. Rudolph, D/Chief V, asked Mr. Welday, Chief T12 to effect a search of
certain 1962 SIGINT product records held by the SIGINT Repository; the results of
which would be used to respond to a query from Mr. Blakey in connection with the
House Select Committee on Assassinations investigation into the circumstances
surrounding the death of President Kennedy.
Using the guidelines described in the memo the following microfilm copy of
product was searched, by T1244 people.

1. QOC Series

Reports 3/0/QOC/R1-130
Report #3-10, 86, 97, 110, 111 and 128 not held in Repository.

2/0/QOC/R1-13
Report #8 not held in Repository.

2X/O/QOC/R1-352
Report #48, 49, 228, 248, 266, 308 317 and 350 not held in Repository.
Report #178 180 not readable on film (date of issue between 8 August
and 20 September 1962 therefore did not recall H.C.)

Translations 3/0/QOC/T1-150 Trnslation %399 not held in Repository.

2/0/QOC/T1-76

2X/O/QOC/T1-2957 Translation %231057 1065, 1182, 1313, 2102, 2128,
and 2250 not held in Repository.

2. QOY Series

Reports 3/0/QOY/R1-11 Report #33, 8, and 10 not held in Reporitory.

2/0/QOY/R1

2X/O/QOY/R1 Report #311 not held in Repository.

Translations 3/0/QOY/T1-50

2/O/QOY/T2 Translation #1 not held in Repository.

2X/O/QOY/T1-519 Translation #242-45, 92, 177, 253, 260, 261, and 434
not held in Repository. Translations 500-507 not readable on film
(date of issue Oct 1962, therefore did not recall H.C.)

3. QOF Series

Reports 3/0/QOF/R1-39

2/O/QOF/R1-225

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc'ID: 6879076 Doc Ref ID: A4269453

Translations 3/0/QOF/T1-7

2/0/QOF/T1
2X/O/QOF/T1-411 Translation #3368 not held in Repository.

J.D. Maggard, T124, 3219s, 27 July 78, ath

CCI LAO个

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
