Doc ID: 6879016
Doc RTOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
AGENCY: NSA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10336
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/POD/T1470-63 PORTUGAL HAS MORE TIME TO MAKE DEMARCHES REGARDING VO [R]
DATE: 12/05/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6, X7,X8
TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879016
Doc Ref ID: A4269358
TOP SECRET DINAR

Portuguese PODH WS 9737 3/O/POD/T1470-63
IS 05 Dec 2319Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

PORTUGAL HAS MORE TIME TO MAKE DÉMARCHES REGARDING VOTE IN
FOURTH COMMITTEE

FR New York: GARIN 25 Nov 63
TO Lisbon: Foreign Ministry Very Urgent
Msg Nr: 464

The UN was in adjournment today. Tomorrow morning there
will be a meeting of the plenary to pay homage to the memory
of President KENNEDY. For the afternoon therefare scheduled
meetings of the Security Council on apartheid and some other
committees, but not the Fourth Committee. Therefore this
will give the Secretariat of State in Lisbon more time
to make démarches to governments concerning the forthcoming
vote in the Fourth Committee.

✓
MS 974 CN ILC TI --
Portuguese 3/O/POD/T1470-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
