Doc ID: 6878988
Doc ID: 6878988

TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10314
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO
TITLE :
3/0/IRD/T1735-63 PERIOD OF MOURNING FOR U.S. PRESIDENT [R]
DATE : 12/06/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1, X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
Doc Ref ID: A4268846

TOP SECRET DINAR

Iranian IRDG-1 WS 1664 3/0/IRD/T1735-63
IS 06 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO
ST 300

PERIOD OF MOURNING FOR U.S. PRESIDENT

FR Teheran: Foreign Office, Dr. ANSARI 24 Nov 63
TO Rio de Janeiro: Embassy((A))
Msg Nr: 1662
Further to 1643((B)):

In accordance with a communiqué issued by the imperial court,
there are five days of mourning. Accordingly, during this period
the flag of your embassy must be flown at half-mast.

((A)) Circular. Sent to all missions.
((B)) Available if required. [A circular to all missions telling
them to lower their flags to half-mast, in sign of mourning
for the American President.]

MS 19 CN ILC TI [M]

Iranian 3/0/IRD/T1735-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
