Doc ID: 6878956 Doc Ref ID SECRET SPOKE DATE: 10/08/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10275
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USN [R]
FROM: USN-19
TO: DIRNSA

TITLE :
VENEZUELAN ARMY UNITS ALERTED DUE TO THE ATTEMPT OF THE LIFE OF THE PR [R]
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6, X7,X8

SECRET SPOKE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
CLASSIFIED
CLA Doc 6878956 Doc Ref ID: A4268780
NNNNZOCZCANA 662 """""ΔΔΔΔΔ
OO YEKAAH YEKHDH
DE YEKANA 10 23/0050Z NOV
ZKZK OO SZH NSD NRL DE
Ο 230049Z ZYH
FM USN 19
TO DIRNSA
INFBCDIRNAVSECGRU
ASSTDIRNAV SECGRU
| CLASSIFIED
ZEM
SECRET KIMBO-
USN-19 VENEZUELAN TECH PHASING XLATION NR 70-63
PART I.
VENEZUELAN ARMY UNITS ALERTED DUE TO THE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF
:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
FM: CARACAS 22 NOV 63 1600
TO: BARQUISIMETO NR 29
AS OF THIS DATE AND UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE YOU WILL

REMAIN IN STATE OF ALERT DUE TO THE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF THE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

!
:
)
)
1080
ر
CLASSIFIED
PART II.
CLASSIFIED
ב
CLASSIFIEL
DocID: 6878956
PARTI
Doc Ref ID: A4268780
VENEZUELAN ARMY UNITS ALERTED DUE TO THE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES

FM: CARACAS 22 NOV 63 1600
NR 29
TO: BARQUISIMETO

AS OF THIS DATE AND UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE YOU WILL

REMAIN IN STATE OF ALERT DUE TO THE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF THE

PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

MS 19 CN VEMY 50104 TI 22 NOV 63 21507

U
LNR 29 AAA/PO/164 AA 22160Ø NOV 63 L/1 BT
U
(? CUL AR DIA .../QRN// ON ETRA ? FSP URGENTE BT
ر
INFORMOLE DESDE PRESENTE FECHA HASTA SEGUNDA ORDEN PERMANECER

ESTADO ALERTA MOTIVADO ACONTECIMIENTO RESULTADO ATENTADO PRESIDENTE
EE UU NORTEAMERICA. ВТ

AR SON 26 AA AA AZREG AR ? AG EE-S BT WGREGAR AL FINAL LAS

LETRAS CA? CA BT. AR AR AR
)
TECH INFO: VEMY 50104, 6TC DE 3ZZ, 5383M KCS, 215ØZ 22 NOV 63

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
:.
5, 1
