Dòc ID: 6878922 TOP SECRET UMBRAE:03/24/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10122
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA [R]
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/BLD/T2299-64: WARREN COMMISSION FINDINGS SUMMARIZED FOR BRAZILIAN [R]
DATE: 09/29/64
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
BRAZIL, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
INVESTIGATION, WARREN COMMISSION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878922 Doc-Ref ID; A4268756:

TOP SECRET DINAR

Brazilian BLDY WS 9436 3/O/BLD/T2299-64
IS 29 Sep 17232 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

WARREN COMMISSION FINDINGS SUMMARIZED FOR BRAZILIAN FOREIGN
MINISTRY

FR Washington: JURACY MAGALHOES- 25 Sep 64
TO Rio de Janeiro: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 1614

As announced at the beginning of this week, the report
of the commission headed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court, which investigated the assassination of President
KENNEDY, was handed to President JOHNSON yesterday. The
report is very lengthy, but is to be printed for wide distribu-
tion, according to the desire of President JOHNSON that there
be no doubts in regard to the circumstances and motivation
of that crime.

Sunday afternoon, the day after tomorrow, the report
will be made public, which will make possible its transcription
in the morning press on Monday.
:

The ceremony of handing the report to President JOHNSON
was attended by all members of the commission appointed by
him, which became known as the WARREN Commission and which
was made up of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Senator
RICHARD RUSSELL and JOHN SHERMAN COOPER, Congressman HALE
BOGGS and GERALD FORD and our Mr. JOHN J. MOCLOY and Mr. ALLEN
DULLES.

It appears that the conclusion of the WARREN Commission
is that LEE OSWALD was the sole author of the crime and that
his motive was strictly personal. In regard to the assassination
of OSWALD, the Commission appears to have accepted the thesis
that JACK RUBY also acted on strictly personal motivation both
evidently having suffered from mental unbalance or instability.
3/O/BLD/T2299-64
MS
Brazilian
CN-- TI

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
:.
