Doc ID: 6878905 Doc Ref ID: A4268735 DATE:03/24/97
TOP SECRET UMBRA PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10101
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCO [R]
TITLE :
3/0/MXD/T1657-63((A)): MEXICAN AMBASSADOR REPORTS SOVIET REACTION TO [R]
DATE: 12/13/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
USSR, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc ID: A4268735
Doc Ref ID: 6878905
TOP SECRET DINAR

Mexican MXDN WS 15532 Change 1
3/0/MXD/T1657-63((A))
IS 13 Dec 63 P
Dist: HCO

MEXICAN AMBASSADOR REPORTS SOVIET REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF
U.S. PRESIDENT

FR Moscow: LUCIO 29 Nov 63
TO Mexico City: Foreign Ministry -
Msg Nr: 201

Reference repercussions in the Soviet Union to the assassination
of President KENNEDY.

Basing the first on personal judgment and the others on reports
from reliable diplomatic sources, I will give the following evalua-
tions:

The deep grief produced here by the assassination was
absolutely spontaneous and can be explained by the high culture of
the Soviet people, which enables them to rise above world events,
and by traditional Russian sentimentality.

The moment the news was received, because of the possibility of
international complications the military authorities increased their
security measures. These have now returned to normal.

High-ranking Soviet officials are concerned over what interna-
tional policy the new President will pursue, especially with respect
to Cuba, and, although it seems that MIKOYAN's feelings, after
speaking with the President and other high-ranking United States
officials, were moderately calm, Soviet leaders are waiting to learn
how the matter of the purchase of wheat in the United States will be
resolved and also for the conclusion of a new Soviet-United States
cultural agreement, in order to obtain a more clear idea of the above-
mentioned policy.

((A)) Reissue based on better text.

MS 19 CN ILC TI 29 Nov 63 17282
Change 1
Mexican 3/0/MXD/T1657-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
