Doc ID: 6879028 Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10352
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/UAD/T2424-63 U.S.-UAR PRESIDENT JOHN REPLIES TO "ABDUL-NASSER'S [R]
DATE : 12/09/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1, X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

-TOP SECRET UMBRA-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879028 Doc Ref ID: A4269380

TOP SECRET DINAR

UAR UADD WS 17452-17453 3/O/UAD/T2424-63
IS 09 Dec 2249 Z P
Dist: HCF Plus
ST 300

U.S.-UAR: PRESIDENT JOHNSON REPLIES TO 'ABDUL-NASSER'S MESSAGE
OF CONDOLENCE

FR Washington: Ambassador 25 Nov 63
TO Cairo: KHARGIA --
Msg Nr: 396

[2-part message complete]

A. The message of condolence which H.E. the President was
kind enough to send to the new President was received with obvious
appreciation in the official circles.

B. The senior officials in the State Department expressed
this to me, they also stated that the reply of the new President
to the message had been sent to their Ambassador in Cairo.

I also learned that Ambassador BADEAU had been instructed to
communicate an oral message from the new President to the high
officials. It contained the assurances of President JOHNSON
[Part 2] that he would continue his predecessor's policy of co-
operation with us. It also contained some of his thoughts
vis-a-vis Yemen.

I will meet with Ambassador JERNEGAN, the Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State, on Friday, in accordance with his invitation,
for a general review of the situation in (B val the light of)
the recent events in their country.

MS 974 CN ILC TI --

UAR 3/O/UAD/T2424-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
:
-TOP SECRET DINAR-
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
