Doc ID: 6879020 Doc Ref ID: A4269368

SECRET MORAY
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA DATE: 10/09/98
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10345 PAGE: 1
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/TUD/T71-63 TURK AMBASSADOR URGES HASTE IN SENDING DELEGATION TO [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879020 Doc Ref ID: A4269368

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/TUD/T71-63
IS 24 Nov 1607Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 280

SECRET 0/26852-63

TURK AMBASSADOR URGES HASTE IN SENDING DELEGATION TO KENNEDY
FUNERAL

FR Washington: Embassy 23 Nov 63
TO Ankara: Foreign Ministry Flash
Msg Nr: --

The funeral ceremony for the late President KENNEDY will
be held on 25 November at 11 o'clock this time. According to
information released by the agencies up to this moment,
[XG/M] among those coming here are President DE GAULLE, the
Chief of the General Staff, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs
from France, Chancellor ERHART and probably ADENAUER from
Germany, and Prince PHILLIP and Prime Minister HOME from England.
It is also being said by the diplomatic corps that those who
probably will come (XG/M) the kings of Belgium and Norway. Based
on the shortness of time, I submit that our (B validelegation)

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(S)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 36 CN TUDB 00301 TI 23 Nov 63 1858Z
Turkish P/L WS 107 2X/O/TUD/T71-63

0/26852-63
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(S)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879020 Doc Ref ID: A4269368

SECRET SABRE

2X/O/TUD/T71-63

SECRET 0/26852-63

coming from Ankara must [6G] immediately by securing a special
plane, and I request information be given revealing [XG/M]
taking the necessary precautions here.

[Signed] MENEMENCIOGLU

GROUP 1 SECRET PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
