Doc ID: 6878985
Doc R TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10311
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/IAD/T2217-63 INDONESIAN POLICE OFFICIALS ORDERED TO U.S. BY SUKARO [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878985 Doc Ref ID: A4268841

TOP SECRET DINAR

Indonesian IADY WS 63G-78 3/O/LAD/T2217-63
IS 02 Dec 2231Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

INDONESIAN POLICE OFFICIALS ORDERED TO U.S. BY SUKARNO TO EXPLORE
CAUSES OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION

FR Djakarta: DEPARLU [M]
TO Washington: INDONESIA
Msg Nr:

From: State Secretary.

No. 655/K/63.

On 29 November, Police High Commissioner SUTARTO, Deputy
Minister/Police Force Commander, and Colonel SUTHARDIO, Deputy
Director of Military Police, left for Washington under orders
from His Excellency the President to explore the causes behind
the assassination of the late President KENNEDY. Please see
that they receive the necessary funds while they are in the
USA to carry out their assignment. This can be settled with me
later. Also, please arrange reception and lodging.
1

MS 974 CN ILC TI

Indonesian 3/0/IAD/T2217-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
