Doc ID: 6878863
TOP SECRET UMBRA
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10090

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
3/0/MXD/T1659-63: MEXICO'S APPEAL RECEIVED TOO LATE; PRISONER EXECUTE [R]
DATE: 12/02/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES [R]
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
* CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc Ref ID. A-42687181-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Mexican MXDN WS 15528 3/0/MXD/T1659-63
IS 02 Dec 1845Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

MEXICO'S APPEAL RECEIVED TOO LATE; PRISONER EXECUTED FOR ATTEMPT
AGAINST CASTRO

FR Havana: Ambassador BOSQUES 27 Nov 63
TO Mexico City: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 887

With reference to your enciphered telegram Nr. 52135((A)),
dated 23 August 1963, and my message Nr. 822((B)), dated
6 November 1963, I report that I presented a second plea in
the case of CARLOS ESPIN (XU) Y ESCALES ((C)) on the same day
that his sentence was pronounced.

The plea was submitted by Dr. RAUL ROA, Cuban Foreign
Minister, to President DORTICOS, who told Dr. ROA to inform me
that on that same day he [ESCALES] had been executed, before
Cuba knew about Mexico's note. In any event, the sentence of
capital punishment would not have been commuted, because he was
one of the principal persons responsible for an attempt against
the life of the Prime Minister, Dr. FIDEL CASTRO.

((A)) Available if required. [MXDN W/S 14989, dated 22 August
1963. Text similar to that contained in 3/0/MXD/T1204-63.]
((B)) Not available.
((C)) Not identified.

MS 19 CN ILC ΤΙ 28 Νον 63 02472

Mexican 3/O/MXD/T1659-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
TOP SECRET DINAR-
