Doc ID: 6878967 Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10344
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/SID/T243-63 THAI AMBASSADOR INFORMS FOREIGN MINISTRY OF HIS EXPRES [R]
DATE: 11/29/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSIGNATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878967 Doc Ref ID: A4269367

TOP SECRET DINAR

Thai P/L [English] WS 31 NYB-80463 3/O/SID/T243-63
IS 29 Nov 16512 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

THAI AMBASSADOR INFORMS FOREIGN MINISTRY OF HIS EXPRESSING
CONDOLENCES TO U.S.

FR New York: DIRECK 22 Nov 63 1650
TO Bangkok: KANTANGDES Immediate
Msg Nr: 89

On learning of the assassination of President KENNEDY, I
took the following action:

1. Personally expressed regrets to Governor STEVENSON,
2. Issued a short statement on behalf of the Thai
delegation.
3. Signed the book at the U.S. Mission.
4. Sent a telegram to the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation.

MS 974 CN ILC TI

Thai /
3/0/SID/T243-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
:
TOP SECRET DINAR-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
