Doc ID: 6879055
Doc
:
TOP SECRET UMBRA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10376
RECORDS SERIES :
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: O/ZK
TITLE :
3/0/0QY/127-63 SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER TWENTY-ONE [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION:+
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879055
TOP SECRET DINAR
REPRODUCTION/FURTHER DISSEMINATION PROHIBITED
WITHOUT PRIOR DIRNSA CONCURRENCE

3/0/QOY/R27-63
24 Nov 63 21052
DIST: O/ZK
ST 011, 022, 051, 071,
141, 161, 241, 311,
701
SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

Information in this report is that available to NSA as of
1900Z, 24 November, 1963, unless otherwise stated.

SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY PART ONE

WORLD HIGHLIGHTS

1. VENEZUELAN AIR DETACHMENT HAS ORDERS TO DESTROY ENEMY
PLANES OVER VENEZUELAN TERRITORY

Beginning at 1330Z on 25 November, the newly established
Venezuelan "Capri" air detachment, has been ordered to co-ordinate
with navy units to intercept, destroy or counteract enemy air
incursions of Venezuelan territory. This air detachment, to be
stationed at Coro (11-25N 69-41W), will also join navy and national
guard units in patrolling the coast of Falcon state.

Several U/I planes have been reported over Falcon state
since 7 October. The establishment of the "Capri" detachment
elements defensive measures ordered on 28 October against planes
suspected of supplying the guerrillas of Falcon. These flights,
according to previous Venezuelan military reports, are apparently
conducted on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays at 1930 hours.
(3/O/VEM/R02-63, 30 Oct 2113Z, 3/O/VEM/R12-63, 2420012). (TOP
SECRET DINAR)

2. GUINEΕΛΝ: CHOU EN-LAI MAY VISIT AFRICA IN DECEMBER

Guinean representative BANGOURA in Peking informed
President TOURE that he had learned unofficially that Premier
CHOU EN LAI will leave Peking on 13 or 14 December to visit
Egypt and other African countries, including Guinea, Ghana
and Mali. He was unable to confirm the information with
Chinese protocol because, he believed, they were being
discreet in order to avoid an assassination attempt such
as President LIU SHAO CHI had experienced in a visit to
Cambodia. (3/O/GAD/T139-63, 232157Z). (TOP SECRET DINAR)

3. HAVANA REACTIONS TO KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

The reaction in Havana to the death of President KENNEDY
was calm but cautious, according to a report from the Chilean
Ambassador there on 23 November. Only isolated Communist groups
have shown any rejoicing. Radio and news reels are giving objective

Page 1 of & Page(s)
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879055
TOPIDSEGRET DINAR-
3/0/QOY/R27-63
reports. There is some concern over repercussions which the
assassination may have. (3/0/CLD/T1075-63, 241917Z). (TOP SECRET
DINAR)

4. CORRECTION TO: 3/0/QOY/R25-63 SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER
NINETEEN, PART CHE, WORLD HIGHLIGHTS "CONTINUED ACTION
CABDIDA-CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) BORDER"

Change first two sentences of the first paragrap to read:
The report of an attack on Portuguese border troops was confirmed
in a Portuguese message of 21 November. The Operations Chief of
Staff at Luanda was informed by a Portuguese military officer that
insurgents, probably with the aid of bazooka and mortar, had
attacked an Eternal security police (PIDE) post.

The second sentence of the second paragraph should be
changed to read: As a result of this attack, reinforcements,
consisting of 81 Mortar Section and a Cascadores (Commarido)
Platoon were to be inmediately dispatched to occupy the area
of the Border Guard and PIDE frontier posts at Hassabi. (TOP
SECRET DINAR)

SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY PART TWO

CURRENT STATUS: USSR

1. STRATEGIC ROCKET FORCES NTR

2. LONG RANGE AVIATION (LRA)
)
A. LRA bomber elements have remained in the usual weekend
virtual standdown status as of 13002, 24 November. (SECRET KIMBO)

B. Weather information for various locations in the central
and westem Arctic for the period 0100 17002 appeared on
communications facilities of the LRA Arctic Commend on 23/24
November. The weather data consisted of requests for forecasts

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
