Doc ID: 6878911 TOP SECRET UMBRATE:03/25/97
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM PAGE: 1
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10103

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA [R]
FROM : NSA
TO : HCF
TITLE :
3/0/UAD/T2455-63: U.S.-UAR: KAMEL SENDS CAIRO HIS EVALUATION OF LBJ [R]
DATE : 12/17/63
PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS :
EGYPT, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
EGYPT, REACTION TO JOHNSON [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878911 Doc Ref ID: A4268737
TOP SECRET DINAR

UAR UADD WS 17544-17567 3/O/UAD/T2455-63
IS 17 Dec 2225Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

U.S.-UAR: KAMEL SENDS CAIRO HIS EVALUATION OF JOHNSON AND HIS
ADMINISTRATION

FR Washington: Ambassador 29 Nov 63
TO Cairo: KHARGIA
Msg Nr: 398

[22-part message complete]

I. KENNEDY's murder and its causes.

A. Since the announcement of the assassination, there
have been rumors in diplomatic circles, and in some of the newspapers
and radio broadcasts and various other quarters about the facts and
motives of the event and the position of the Dallas authorities
toward it, etc.

Some are of the opinion that the crime was arranged
by some radical right-wingers who had been aroused by KENNEDY's
policy which advocated racial equality, by his position toward some
of the big industrial forces, particularly steel, and by his
strategy which (Part 2) called for a truce with the Soviets and
for finding spheres of co-operation with them. Others believe that
the crime was set up by the radical Communists who oppose the policy
of peaceful coexistence. One faction of that (group) said that the
crime was an individual act committed by a fanatic or a deranged
person.

B. The killing of OSWALD, who was accused of KENNEDY'S
murder, and the circumstances under which it was committed and the
new suspicions it raised in and outside of America [1 wd G]
President JOHNSON (B val to instruct) the (Part 3] FBI and the
Department of Justice to make a comprehensive investigation of the
matter and not to be content with the investigations which were
being made by the state in which the crime was committed. It was
UAR 3/0/UAD/T2455-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 7 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878911 Doc Ref ID: A4268737

TOP SECRET DINAR

UAR 3/0/UAD/T2455-63
also reported today that the Senate Judiciary Committee would in
turn request an investigation of the matter and also discussion of
legislation to make the murder of a President a federal crime
which would not fall under the legal jurisdiction of any state.

C. It is hoped that the coming investigations will reveal
the following: [Part 4]

Was OSWALD the killer and what were his motives? If
OSWALD was not the killer, who committed the crime? Was it a
conspiracy or an individual act? Was it an American or an inter-
national conspiracy?

The prevailing view among circles known for conser-
vatism is that it is essential to make a meticulous and public
investigation to forestall rumors and in order to dispel unjustified
suspicions, elevate the power of the law and protect American honor
in the eyes of the world and history.

II. The new President and his policy: (Part 5]

The leaders of Congress from both parties and the top officials
in the government and the press and radio worked energetically
to prevent division and confusion((A)) life to normal, after it had
almost come to a standstill, by supporting the new President and
advocating unity and working for the future. In order to restore
confidence and clarify matters, the President hastened to announce
his domestic and foreign policy in a speech which he delivered to
Congress in joint session, with the chiefs of the diplomatic
missions and representatives of the international and American press
also present. (Part 6)

He announced that his foreign and domestic policy would be a
continuation and implementation of the policy of his predecessor:

A. From the international standpoint, he stated that he
supported the policy of seeking peace and exploring spheres of
co-operation, even with antagonists, offering aid to emerging
nations, bolstering the Western alliance and fulfilling America's
obligations from South Viet Nam to Berlin. HE summarized his foreign
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878911 Doc Ref ID: A4268737

TOP SECRET DINAR

UAR 3/0/UAD/T2455-63

policy by saying that America would be ready for peace or war.

B. From the domestic standpoint, he also adhered to
KENNEDY's program and urged (Part 7) Congress to hasten to enact
the racial equality bill, the tax reduction bill, the education law,
etc.
i
This speech is the first official document which, at least on
the surface, reveals that the new President will adhere to KENNEDY's
foreign and domestic policy. The view which is current in some
Western diplomatic circles is that the new President is an expert
in the methods and the directing of American partisan policy and
that he was extraordinary in his handling of the various currents
in Congress; however, (Part 8) he has not been sufficiently exper-
ienced in foreign affairs and he leans more toward the conservatives
than the liberals. Some of these circles have also stated some
apprehensions about him and have said that he is from the re-
calcitrant, conservative South and that his connection with the
oilmen in Texas is well known and that his long service in the Armed
Forces Committee in the Senate has made him closely connected with
the top men of the armed forces, and these persons do not like
KENNEDY's policy which advocated trying to reach an understanding
with the Russians. Then, his friendship with the American Ambassador
in Bonn, [Part 9] Mr. MCGHEE, who leans toward ADENAUER's views on
Moscow, might make him more inclined toward a policy of toughness,
not truce, with regard to the Communist camp.

Some Britons think it possible that KHRUSHCHEV will have no
confidence in him and that DE GAULLE may seize the opportunity to
activate his plans in Europe. They, therefore, advocate that
Britain take the initiative in playing a more prominent role in the
Western camp in the directing of international policy.

Nevertheless, the prevailing view here at present--if nothing
happens to force him to change--is that he will not change KENNEDY's
foreign policy (5G) (Part 10) nor in method and [6G] to give
assurance. He, therefore, will retain most of KENNEDY's advisers,
the most important being his number-one adviser in international
affairs, BUNDY. Since the new President has a propensity for
domestic political affairs, they expect him to rely more on the
-3-
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878911 Doc Ref ID: A4268737

UAR
TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/UAD/T2455-63
:
Secretary of State. It is well known that JOHNSON especially
appreciates RUSK.
Political circles here also believe that (Part 11] he will
continue the domestic policy of his predecessor, at least until the
presidential elections. It is, therefore, (B val supposed) that he
(B val will retain) most of his Cabinet and will enter the election
campaign on the basis of KENNEDY's program. Also, they think it
most likely that JOHNSON will be the candidate of the Democratic
Party in the coming presidential elections at the end of next year.
They think that the chances of GOLDWATER, the right-wing Republican,
have lessened and that the Republicans might nominate ROCKEFELLER or
NIXON and that the latter's chances have increased. (Part 12]

It is risky to make any predictions now about the results of
the coming presidential campaign. Nevertheless, it appears that
it will be between JOHNSON and a middle-of-the-road Republican
not a radical right-winger, because the prevailing sentiment of
public opinion is a demand to repair the breach and close the wound
and to raise (to higher priority) the policy of reconciliation
and interest in domestic affairs.

Some of Peking's supporters in North Viet Nam, Laos and North
Korea are reiterating that KENNEDY's murder reveals a victory of
reactionary trends. It is to be noted that at present there is an
increase in the activity of the Viet Cong forces in South Viet Nam.
[Part 13] Also, the press of North Korea and the Pathet Lao in
Laos have intensified their attack on Washington. They explain the
position of Peking and its supporters (4G) that on the one hand, their
view may be represented in [the statement) that the policy of the
new President will be less flexible than that of his predecessor but,
on the other hand, perhaps the attack is a means of testing the
rigidity of the new American administration.

Some circles in Britain believe that JOHNSON is an astute
politician who is skillful in figuring and evaluating and a con-
servative who is practiced in conducting a policy of conciliation.
[Part 14]

KHRUSHCHEV, on the surface, appears sympathetic but he hides
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
TOP SECRET DINAR

Doc ID: 6878911 Doc Ref ID: A4268737

UAR
TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/LAD/T2455-63
heart that is unyielding,

III. The Embassy's observations:

A. KENNEDY's death has created a new situation in America
and on the futemational scene, the landmarks of which are at
present unclear. Therefore, it appears to us that the position
which prevails in Western and Eastern diplomatic circles and in the
neutral group is one based on watchfulness and acting with extreme
care and caution and attempting to begin a careful operation to
disclose, on the one hand, the real leanings [Part 15) of the
new administration and its method of operation and the forces which
can influence it, while working on the other hand to establish
friendly, constructive relations with it as far as possible.

B.
//
This has been clear in the contacts of MIKOYAN in
Washington and his statements about his government's desire to
continue the policy of reaching an understanding and in the reports
of some Russian diplomats that KHRUSHCHEV and JOHNSON must meet, etc.
The same attitude is to be noted with the British, the French,
the Yugoslavs, etc. [Part 16]
i
C. Matters will remain unclear as long as the circum-
stances, mtives and forces behind KENNEDY's death remain
undefined. Then, any basic surprise in this regard might have a
long-range effect on domestic and external conditions. The present
[situation] is that KENNEDY and his top aides sensed the toughness,
and (B val despair) of the forces which opposed their liberal,
realistic policy and, therefore, had not concealed that from us,
something which we had explained fully to the Ministry.

C. [sic] Despite the obvious difference in the
personalities of KENNEDY and JOHNSON-the former was a blend
[Part 17] of idealism, and realism, rare intelligence, broad
knowledge, deep understanding of the developments of history
and the secrets of human psychology at its highest and lowest,
loyalty to the welfare of the world and his country and of courage
and fidelity to the rule of reason and the bond of friendship;
also, he [1 wd G) drawing around him domestic and foreign policies
while JOHNSON has more of an inclination and adherence than KENNEDY
-5-
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878911 Doc Ref ID: A4268737
UAR
TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/UAD/T2455-63
to the economic system based on free enterprise and, therefore,
is more inclined to the right wing (Part 18] and closer to the
conservative policy and the past generation and further from the
left wing which is more intellectual and possesses long-range
imagination and which KENNEDY had led--despite this, it is [1 wd G]
at present to make any predictions about the final course which the
new President will follow. The prevailing view here is that there
will be no basic change in KENNEDY's policy until the presidential
elections are held the end of next year. Nevertheless, it depends
on the development of events. [Part 19].
!
D. Signs that KENNEDY's policy will be continued appear
in the speech of the new President before Congress, the statements
of top officials here in the State Department, the writings of top
writers and the retention, so far, of the members of KENNEDY's
cabinet and his top advisers and confidants in the White House,
the State Department and other departments,

E. Then, the many complications domestically and exter-
nally would make any minor change, particularly toward Moscow, easy
practically but dangerous realistically. (Part 20]

Since it is likely that the new President will be less (B val
able) to resist pressure than his predecessor and since, because
of his long service in domestic politics, he may by nature be more
prone to keep considerations of domestic politics in mind and to
proceed in conformity with their (Bval requirements) and to endeavor
to satisfy them and because his philosphy and his methods are
different from those of his predecessor. It would therefore be
to our interest until the presidential elections are held to follow
a policy which would not expose him to pressure or embarrassment so
as not to enablé our enemies to draw him [Part 21) over to their
side. This is the essence of the matter at present. It would appear
that our opponents will try at the first opportunity to complicate
matters between us and the new administration by exploiting: the
situation in Yemen, or the Algerian-Moroccan dispute and our
position toward it; or the Arab-Israeli dispute if they find a
chance to raise it; etc.

In the light of the above paragraph, it would appear to us
6-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.

Doc ID: 6878911 Doc Ref ID: A4268737

UAR
TOP SECRET DINAR
3/0/UAD/T2455-63
at present that JOHNSON may continue the policy of his predecessor
toward us. He may be encouraged to do that by the [Part 22]
positive results achieved by the policy of his predecessor in this
regard and by the supporters of this policy both in and outside
the government, the most important being Secretary of State RUSK
and FULBRIGHT, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, a confidant of JOHNSON and one of the first ones who
supported him as a candidate for president in the 1960 elections.

((A)) Obvious omission.

MS 974 CN ILC TI

-7-
TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
