Doc ID: 6878940 Doc Ref ID: A4268797
-----
AGENCY: NSA JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM DATE: 10/08/98
IDENTIFICATION FORM PAGE: 1
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10290
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
TO :
TITLE :
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS
DATE : 11/22/63
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:
[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878940 Doc Ref ID: A4268797
(unclassified until filled) James A. Caffrey
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS DATE 22 November 1963
FROM (hour) (to)
0800 1600
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT 0745
Mr. V. T. Larson
TIME (L) EVENT
0750 SFCNL (Ref 0040 SNOO LOG item this date, made change to CNL).
0830 Gen. Davis will be at Tide's Inn, Irvington, Va. from noon today until
Sunday evening, when he will return. 703-438-2611 RM 167
0835 Simpson, NMCC, called and stated that the French convoy scheduled for
today apparently went through without incident (the French are a little
slow in providing information). Simpson also stated that Gen. Lemnitzer
had submitted a recommendation that the tests be called off. Beginning
today, NMCC will provide a copy of the DIA briefing notes if, after
perusal of the initial one, we are interested in receiving them on a
continuing basis.
0840 Simpson again with convoy information. US 17 ETA Marienborn 2610002;.
13 vehicles, 26 crew, 28 troops. Part of 4th Battalion, 18th Infantry.
NOTE: The last US convoy posted on the board is US 15; called Simpson
back and asked him about US 16. Cannot answer; will find out and call
back later.
0845 Ref SNOO LOG items 2325, 21 Nov. and 0120, this date. Checked with M
Duty Officer. Mis not taking any action. They say the action is P04's.
Will attempt to get the information from PO4.
1005 A33 called re a requirement for info from CIIC DIA. A msg is going out
to USA 751 requesting any info in a 19 Nov Recon mission over Sweden.
1040 Maj. Reid, DIA, called re the cable break on the 17th (CANTAT). Said
he got the info from DCA, who got it from ATT, who got it from Canadian
Telephone Co. Break not clearly due to trawler activity. Extent of
damage routine for break; not excessively damaged. There were, however,
one W. German and several E. German trawlers in the vicinity of the break,
which occurred on the edge of a shelf in very deep water.
1055 Seven copies of ADDENDUM TO DIA INTSUM NR 279-63 received & distributed.
1100 NIC situation check.
1440 PRESIDENT KENNEDY IS DEAD. HE WAS SHOT BY AN ASSASSIN WHILE HIS MOTOR-
CADE WAS MOVING ALONG ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF DALLAS. FYI to CAG ONNIS.
1450 DIA/CIIC INCIC message 16-53, DTG 221928Z, received. "IN VIEW OF RE-
PORTED SHOOTING OF THE PRESIDENT, ALL INDICATION CENTERS ARE URGED TO
INITIATE UN IMMEDIATE ALERT FOR POSSIBLE HOSTILE REACTIONS. ANY
INDICATIONS OF A CHANGE IN ENEMY POSTURE WILL BE IMMEDIATELY PASSED VIA
INDIC CHANNELS TO DIA. CRITIC MESSAGES SHOULD ALSO BE USED AS APPROP-
RIATE."
PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (sig) DUTY OFFICER (ig) REV. BY
J.A.
NSA FORM A 1847 REV JUL 63 (Supersedes A1847 REN NOV 59 which is obsolete) CLASSIFICATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878940 Doc Ref ID: A4268797
(unclassified until filled) James A. Caffrey
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS
FROM (hour) (to) DATE 22 November 1963
0800 1600
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT 0745
Mr. V. T. Larson
TIME (L) EVENT
1335 Dr. Shinn says that no readiness condition will be declared unless some
ALL SNOOS! overt action which would cause this to become such a condition takes
place.

PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (8) DUTY OFFICER) REV. BY
Ja. Caffrey
NSA FORM A 184 REV JUL 63 (Supersedes A1847 REV NOV 59 which is sole) CLASSIFICATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

.Doc ID: 6878940 Doc Ref ID: A4268797
(unclassified until filled) Francis Smead
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS DATE 22 Nov 63
FROM (hour) (to)
1600 2400
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT 1540
Mr Caffrey
TIME (L) EVENT
1540 SFCNL
1600 Received COMUSAFSS DTG 222022Z(NSA not info passed by AFSSFM) "AS A
RESULT OF THE PRESIDENT'S UNTIMELY DEATH HAVE BEEN ADVISED THAT THE
JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF WILL INITIATE AN INCREASED ALERT CONDITION..."
CALLED DIA ON ANY ALERT BY JCS THEY HAVE NO INFO. NMCC HAS NO WORD
EITHER.
1605 Fisher, Ti advised that there is a man standing by in the DIRECTORS
teleconference room for use.
NOTE DR. SHINN IS ON TELEPHONE ALERT FOR USIB WATCH COMM. IF MEETING IS
CALLED NIC WILL CALL NSASCC WHICH SHOULD CALL SHINN AND FARLEY AT HOME.
1620 Lt. Col. Lang, B205 will be in until midnight. B25, B26, B27 will have
people working on DIP traffic backlog. A Group will not have any
watches.
1705 Conducted Series Check with Lt. Hill, DIA and 2/0/BRP/T-19-63. He
wants this report put out in Xray Series. Title of report is "SUR-
VEILLANCE ORDERED OF AMERICAN ATTACHE OFFICERS, BANGKOK WHILE IN
LASHIO, BURMA".
Univerisity
1810 WOOD, NSA REP NIC called and stated that the Free/Demonstrations will
take place tonight. This probably in reaction to President's death.
Could develope. This universityyis is W. Berlin.
1725 Received AFSSO SAC DTG 221937Z. GOLDEN TREE (OLD BRASS KNOB) 3779
sked for 23 Νοv 63.
1726 Received USA-751 2/J/CMRUA/R829-63. SIGING READINESS ALFA HAS BEEN
DECLARED FOR THIS UNTI AND ALL EUROPENA SECURITY REGION UNTS AS OF 200OZ.
received USM-49 DTG 222025Z. "DUE TO PRESENT STATE OF EMERGENCY, GUIDED
MISSELE RANGE ENTITIES HAVE BEEN TEMPORARILY DROPPED FROM COVERAGE. ALL
FACILITIES ARE CONCENTRATED ON THE SOVIET GROUND AND ROCKET FORCES TARGET
1750 RECEIVED USM-49 DTG 2222952. ARE RESUMING NORMAL COVERAGE OF ASSIGNED
MISSION AT 2200Z THIS DATE. THIS REFERS TO MESSAGE FROM USM-49 ABOVE.
1755 JACK NOONAN, C1 called to advise that they are revising mission coverage
at USN-19 in view of the Possible Coup in Brazil.
1855 JSPC up on telecon. Queried what action should be taken insofar as
a SIGINT READINESS DUE TO PRESIDENTS DEATH. They advised that they
were going to declare a READINESS CONDITION. INSTRUCTED THEM NOT
TO DECLARE ANY READINESS CONDITION.
PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (sig) DUTY OFF OFFICER REV. BY
harso CER
NSA FORM A 1847 REV JUL 63 (Supersedes A1847 REV NOV 59 which is obsolete) CLASSIFICATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878940 Doc Ref ID: A4268797
(unclassified until filled) Francis Smead
NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER RECORD OF EVENTS DATE 22 Nov 63
-
FROM (hour) (to)
1600 2400
ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM AT 1540
TIME (L) Mr. Caffrey EVENT
1930 Released P055/251 (Bresidents death, reporting instructions) to all
reporting units.
Released P055/252 to USA-751 instructions to them to cancel their
SIGINT READINESS ALFA.
Reports coming in from USN-834 to the effect that the Cuban Eastern
Naval District has been placed on DAERT because of the death of President
Kennedy.
1940 Having telecon with USA-71 right now. They have no reflection of any
unusual activity on Cuban or Soviet Forces Cuba.
2000 M63 Duty Officer called and said that he had two messages down there
for release, but they have no cite numbers, he requested cite numbers
for these messages. Provided him with P055/253 This message was
originated by B11 and was address ed to USM-84. Provided him with
P055/254. This message originated by B31.
2009 The Columbian and Venezulian Military units have been placed on Alert.
2010 Received USA-751 DTG 230033Z which cancels their SIGINT READINE SS ALFA.
2012 Dr. Shinn checked in.
2100 C1 closed down operations.
2110 Jackson, B11 came in with a copy of a telecon he had just had with
USN 851 (MULLER). They stated they had not yet received any word
or orders on what they should do, and had requests for magnetic tapes
they want to pick-up in Florida. Called Lowman at home, he said to call
LCDR Mc Grath, 004, called him he was not at home. Called Burke, PO4
who is coming in. Called M63 and got copy of the message which was
released today on the MUELLER Sked. Provided Jackson with copy and he
is talking to the Mueller now and advising them of what the message
said.
2130 Received 2135 COMMSQ RAMSTEIN AB GER DTG 230037Z. POSS PHYSICAL
COMPROMISE OF CRYPTO MATERIAL ABOARD THE T33 WHICH CRASHED.
TOLD M63 DUTY OFFICER TO CALL MAN WHO HAS BEEN WORKING ON THIS AND
ALSO MAN FROM S.
2133 Jerry Burke, PO4 reported in and he reviewed the situation re the Mueller
DAY SNOO CALL LCDR MCGRATH, CO4 AT 0730 IN THE MORNING AND ADVISE HIM THAT THERE
IS SOME ACTION THAT NEEDS TO BE TAKEN RE THE MUELLER. COPY OF THE
TELECON WITH THE MUELLER IS ON THE DESK.
PROPERLY RELIEVED BY (sig) DUTY OFFICER (sig) REV. BY
hanson
NSA FORM 41847 BEV IL 63041017 DEU NOW FOLL
CLASSLEICATION
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
