Doc ID: 6879030 Doc Ref IDSECRET MORAY
DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10354

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
2X/0/VND/T50-63 CONDOLENCES ON PRESIDENT'S DEATH [R]
DATE: 11/23/63
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879030 Doc Ref ID: A4269383
SECRET SABRE
2X/0/VND/T50-63
IS 23 Nov 20012 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

SECRET 0/26556-63

CONDOLENCES ON PRESIDENT'S DEATH

FR Saigon: NGUYEN NGOC THO 23 Nov 63 1730
TO Washington: President LYNDON B. --
JOHNSON
Msg Nr: 717/MAE/CAB

President JOHN F. KENNEDY fell in the performance of his
distinguished duties in the service of the most noble causes.
He was a remarkable promoter of the friendship which unites
peoples in devotion to and the defense of liberty, in their
will for co-operation and peace, and in the pursuit of their
joint aims. In the belief that history will pay him this
homage, I beg you, Mr. President, to accept the deeply felt
condolences which I offer in the name of the Provisional
Government and in my own name and to extend them to the United
States Government and the American people, with whom we have
a profound feeling of solidarity in this tragedy.

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC SECRET PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(3)
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 27 CN ILC ΤΙ 23 Noν 63 1040Z

Vietnamese P/L [French] WS 31VXX- 2X/O/VND/T50-63
(South) 13063

0/26556-63
PAGE 1 of 1 PAGE(S)

:
SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
