Doc ID: 6878896
Doc Ref ID: AECRET MORAY
DATE:03/26/97
PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10076
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF [R]
TITLE :
2X/0/CGP/T740-63: REACTION TO KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION [R]
DATE: 11/25/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
ZAIRE, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET MORAY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878896
Doc Ref ID:268704
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/CCP/T740-63
IS 25 Nov 18372 Ρ
Dist: HCF
ST 2903
SECRET
0/26738-63
REACTION TO KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION
FR Stanleyville: PROSUR
TO Leopoldville: GOUSUR
Msg Nr: 380
25 Nov 63

Certain ill-intentioned persons are rejoicing over the
death of the President of the United States of America,
considering that grievous and (1 wd G) event a sign of victory
for them. They are multiplying (B val their) nocturnal (B val
meetings) and drawing up (B val their) blacklists of persons
to assassinate.

Please do your utmost to find me means of transportation
so that I may be of service. This will permit me to carry
out a rapid and efficacious action to frustrate all these
behind-the-scenes maneuvers.

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET
MS UKM-262
CN CGPY 00101 TI 25 Nov 63 09472

Congolese
CGPY [French] WS 1272
2X/O/CGP/T740-63
0/26738-63
PAGE 1 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878896
Doc Ref ID: A4268704
SECRET SABRE
2X/O/CGP/T740-63
SECRET
0/26738-63
COMMENT: In an unpublished message of 25 November the
Stanleyville PROSUR, in the name of the personnel of
the National Surete and in his own name, presented
sincere condolences to the American consul for the
tragic death of the President.

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET

PAGE 2 of 2 PAGE(s)
SECRET SABRE
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
