Doc ID: 6878869 Doc Ref ID: A4268749 DATE:03/24/97
TOP SECRET UMBRA AGE:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10114
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA [R]
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE : [R]
3/0/MXD/T1726-63: HAITI ASKS WITHDRAWAL OF U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE
DATE : 12/19/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS: [R]
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY [R]
HAITI, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc ID: 6878869 Doc Ref ID: A4268749
TOP SECRET DINAR
Mexican MXDM WS 11275 3/0/MXD/T1726-63
IS 24 Dec 16172 P
Dist HCF
ST 300

HAITI ASKS WITHDRAWAL OF U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE BECAUSE OF
ALLEGED SLIGHT

FR Port-au-Prince: REYES 19 Dec 63
TO Mexico City: Foreign Ministry --
Msg Nr: 729413

Coincident with the arrival of the new United States
Ambassador, the Haitian Foreign Ministry asked for the
withdrawal of the United States Cultural Attaché because
his services edited a pamphlet in memory of President KENNEDY
and inserted messages from chiefs of state expressing sorrow
but omitted the Haitian mourning decree and DUVALIER'S
cable of condolence, publishing only articles by Haitian
intellectuals [3 gr G].

MS 962U CN ILC TI 19 Dec 63 20052

Mexican 3/0/MXD/T1726-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
