Doc ID: 6878987 Doc KFLOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10313
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE :
3/0/IQD/T1343-63 KENNEDY ASSASSINATION: IRAQI AMBASSADOR INSTRUCTED TO [R]
DATE: 11/24/63
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6, X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6878987 Doc Ref ID: A4268845

TOP SECRET DINAR

Iraqi IQDB WS 849 3/0/IQD/T1343-63
IS 24 Nov 2051Z P
Dist: HCF
ST 300

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION: IRAQI AMBASSADOR INSTRUCTED TO ATTEND
FUNERAL

FR Baghdad: KHARIJIYAH 2? Nov 63 1630
TO Washington: IRAQIYAH Immediate
Msg Nr: 39

It has been decided that the Ambassador should participate
in the funeral services for the late President KENNEDY and that
he should lay a wreath in the name of the (Iraqi) President.
0

MS 974 CN ILC TI
{
2
Iraqi 3/O/IQD/T1343-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.
