Doc ID: 6879012 Doc TOP SECRET UMBRA DATE: 10/09/98 PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10332
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: NSA
TO: HCF
TITLE : 3/0/KOD/T1411-63 SOUTH KOREAN EXPRESSIONS OF SORROW [R]
DATE : 11/24/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS:
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : +
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1, X3, X5,X6, X7,X8
TOP SECRET UMBRA
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879012 Doc Ref ID: A4269354
TOP SECRET DINAR
Korean KODY WS 311-SNY-52 3/0/KOD/T1411-63
(South) IS 24 Nov 21112 P
Dist: HCF
ST 300
SOUTH KOREAN EXPRESSIONS OF SORROW
FR Seoul: Vice Minister 23 Nov 63 04452
(Bureau of Intelligence, --
First Section)
TO New York: Minister
Msg Nr: --
We have taken the following steps regarding the death of
President KENNEDY.
1. We are sending messages of condolence, in the name of the
Chairman and the Prime Minister, to President JOHNSON and
Mrs. KENNEDY.
2. The Chairman and the Vice Minister have issued
statements expressing their profound sorrow on the sudden death
of President KENNEDY.
3. The temporary Cabinet decided upon the following steps:
a. All Government agencies will express their condolences
by flying their flags at half-mast until the day of the funeral.
b. We would like to express appropriate condolences
to the general public.
C. We would like the people of our country to fly their
flags at half-mast until the day of the funeral.
(The above were announcements by the Minister
of Public Information.)
Korean (South) 3/O/KOD/T1411-63
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

Doc ID: 6879012 Doc Ref ID: A4269354
TOP SECRET DINAR
Korean (South) 3/O/KOD/T1411-63
4. Following Ambassador BERGER's arrival in Seoul
on his return from Tokyo, the Prime Minis ter, the Chairman of
the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Committee, and I are
scheduled to call on the American Embassy and express our condolences
around 1600 hours.
5. The final decision on sending a delegation to the
funeral will be reported later.
MS -- CN ILC TI --
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR
Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.
RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK JR.
