TOROSE
Doc ID: 6879074 DATE: 09/11/97
PAGE: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10173
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM: WOBENSMITH
TO :
TITLE :
SSCI REQUST FOR PRODUCT ON ANTONIO VECIANA

DATE: 12/30/76
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
SSCI REQUEST FOR PRODUCT ON SERAFIN, CUBAN MATERIAL
-ER-

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM'
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:
CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"
Date of source: 3 Sep 91

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Doc ID: 6879074 Doc Ref ID: A4269444

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 30 December 1976

SUBJECT: SSCI Request for Document re Antonio Veciana

In response to the inclosed 20 December request from
the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, on this date
I showed the NSA product on Antonio Veciana, 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62
dated 29 November 1962, to SSCI staffers Tom Moore and Howard
Liebengood. They were quite interested in this message and
a reference to "Serafin." They indicated that the Committee
would request a review of all Cuban material for the period
1961-1965.

JOHN C. WOBENSMITH
Legislative Affairs

LAO

3 Incls:
1. SSCI 1tr dtd 20 Dec 76
2. Product
3. Backup

Mars Ced by 31/05) יין ימיםCM 133-2(
Exempt from 2000 2.
Declassify Upon ta by the Criginator

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,
SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SSCI Aal-
Kisenedy
