JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: KISS/SCOW
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10004-10314
RECORD SERIES: SCOWCROFT MEMCONS, HANDWRITTEN
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: OCTOBER 1975

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH
FROM: SCOWCROFT, BRENT
TO: [Restricted]
TITLE: P/INTELLIGENCE MTG 13 OCT 75 Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88608
Date: 03-18-2025

DATE: 10/13/1975
PAGES: 8

SUBJECTS: FORD, GERALD R.
KISSINGER, HENRY A.
COLBY, WILLIAM E.
CIA
CHURCH COMMITTEE
SCOWCROFT, BRENT
ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS.
BUCHEN, PHILIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/12/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Participants: Ford, Kissinger, Schlesinger, Levi, Lynn, Colby, Buchen, Marsh, Rumsfeld, Scowcroft,
Raoul-Duval. Handwritten notes. For typed transcript see ID# 1781000410302.

NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 1 6

(Unity runadenceory)
P/Jutelligence Wity,
Cit
CK, SL, 1300575
Lys!
marah, nad)
NSA
5. (Argued that atthy Gand should not oppine....
sarvultuce
P. uccase of tele. tops for a partiter evati
yom siya lahane. For NSA, yani
ce gand are that it is whin a low
L. Yes, but I think it thuld be peridhially rintamen
SQestion is whithin atthy Good than sule on
Hermultane drevetid at Son Erby ako an
esave of atty-gank veling on oversens turveillance
C. The Centralogy is atraming zo fost that phone.
cells could be contul overseas for sall hit, Wash & Rich.
L2 and esiint has hell thint verbanny
to a molation.
an
Anm.oraul
R. I will trinh pers wounded Cont atty Gerd inorhed
im phình xăm sop he windd burenw what might
emeupina pogers.
S. The articles ine paper today walt fum Presedinthath
dartilpurs.
K. What is inc papar trelay results from us diinging
rust permatitis gratial are a entes. Thagager
bons post fond we have tonic Egyption arde-
it has been blaren. I think rather than fort duy
claw is fairly use thould try to
LOL
Innte comuto
7
-toc uniters of a world tam wat semurity much.
luntary, a conats are morning, but in
cring drutina Wa mayor bella statuts dent
i have to be caupon about our practices as che
prparnum case
Pttiin ging to get a statuts could be ce drooster

SECRET
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library
NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 2

in today emmument. This is a statuts in
a goon ents, but now will fion time to use
guidelines.
L. how Ed wants to oppine M.S.R. 1970
L2 think we timate have some qualms, perhys
as to if innolunt in traffic in abroad.
2. why We an innolunt guidelines, than evond.
About to atty. Gand been the request inited of you
factur prparatory.
P. Let's have thither, Def, 2 chine chaye guidelines
and then review it w/ atty. gand.
K. I think is certain assets ayunt. They will then
accure e drmint for staming a meeting, if
not an meets the case is that want I get you
in protion fary. For a report. They want blue
edit it a apprond it.
P. I your et = neated a bacio they would handle
it as well fill as we have.
So, If they publish a report at all it is resymble.
L2 then they get put out, since you now will stop
sponty, frankly and preja gante will condement
thin about it as unefondently-
P. 2mth to as a ince bighly tramition and
thim my we have hand
C. An document which officially shows us innolue
crount in water in a w/ chant.
P. Linse remural they don't a right 2 put back my
this
L. This is no legal way we can prent it.

SECRET
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library
NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 3

P.I don't brow what the bitters of transanthal was, but
2 sành thay hinh & handle these cuptin dimarts as
ceve that and we ellased none.
W Duce they home a decrownt, c
spersh & debutt elaezе
nương thình rò rọ trọn cui cạn puantity eelise.
KỈ Kiu arur Mement in this trancotiyatron és the
mwing cover of documents. During The Carthy, to, chine
wos Astrinong but it chit ist nocte aalle documents
evirmed.
(Aure discivesium on this quial font)
P. The Eith was warned on caster clata
B. We agreed that we would object to any repost trust
that we evanll remur...cdrum't the mist
damaging protativis. It was appachet that enc
umthit geta vite in a enate not to puthor a report,
Mi The crito has l
equestrel
as as a Anipo
Anito of
ith pass
gruntatrons. We fraul to do that ryoyt in entitext
P. I think ve thrated user it and then say it
sunt in with intersat to leave it at Ml.
Sc We com
sand cong letter we cront following
нийт
づ
:
P. I think we should remim w/o toph eye and.....
then say the decent than lebn't be chased, but
of thay dittioninad, tom come areas all incie
domoguing them arters..
K2ttich
eve bind a pupul cinst essier ashil..
I think we have to foret etta tich tram fruers
donden ka
The quis
(
SECRET
mint have latat Chisches
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

B... all me au
:.
fuptthing is oppiind supranatio of interior
nhình tộc thanh and brom This usta gosstissere
an which to go to một.
P. I don't want to be any part of their publichng saatinh
this this, If they won't to do that, it ì thịn siy
B. That is position ve hoc Tình
Pwe have to say cang thanghy we opperemeyert,
best thinh thuc and soms more dismayerng Tham
атри
24 hits get to the artis asans.
2
C Ebriches Mining a bb of amar peamminh
Corred ura: man to wating this anhho
fr sevsatinoo. They aboumitopoiht...
sensitie coment quo. Que of insanke,
wy a prosith Chant to Kana;. Crys, as/ trent
to Thobits, hars, Indonesia, Crite
Pehe won'ts to get vrito poetryal & Onyola. We
Jerichomfortryd, Wa
Pete & Une bluey on Angola, I tank we obt
dịc tìm mnhúng
!
chi hao?
gwistions...
really strongly done. Trather is de
franty.
P g trình tuc watt trittsert they thinh tồng
yuusunt opus.....
K. If cery Conte base eright to forcetines
an
Presentintin, we animaurther boge
bus rethratmin.
C. the time free is Chint of thank they home apkal
SECRET
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library
NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 5

for alle records flam ulation of Pom Cru, bụng,
ITT
Ifer achenidye whatininting, ma márt
kül that evingerenstam antity to priece ayunto & get
coy. We momid puppe curating tric brite any dresss
wheat thing my be a question fempiqueties
K. We evell himi a monsumental fort gettingary company t
erop w/ers fritme...
C. Tre, but if an ally atrònging po gránh, của cántang.
:.
ソ
will dyend that.
-
Whore dis szem of angoln risu)
K. The T
':
air ist.
The is one pe
cpparity jeewhion là STNA -
permittin jermin. personel to teshify as to policy
Moslitin. The Unqus au Chint jìmises ameh
bae tho to get at this trees who anhanded them co
fra ente a boor harriers them for chazar
This If the inga
: thang made. To do otherwise went werk & F.S.
prostion of absoluto aber principle His
the the lenithy ayomst policist you imes.
... Before are Fet in đã thì con bạn trên, độ trunk vị thạnh ..
98 Thren. Bergast lettest unsee that parts whình.
...dy. contain thomes os pobing. The brate biya...
:
thông...spinal Charter & I think it is rig ......
cheune omselves. If it is gồng vitt... litigatin, 2 trick
mẹ thored zer if cor cavonot comitige document.
K. The base pent of dissent therman to prove a embossy
in ahimshiba predelestion for floute 4. Cher Sichit.
A hetin 4 dsb. offrets.c
Sc.. Sekurs to the you
an
denying there is a fimüple
is, right of i
anivolned-That is,
SECRET
fjunior. fficers.
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library
to get
NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 6

toe Sacy w/o fear of being exfael.
L. You honca strany public portion was, but I think
it will withen when the bitter becerols huom, teams
90to of a dreiment is a lecturer of fact.
Kyonon. The gristia is wat one of impont it is lousy ingont
1
to let it happen - but what is e liyat homelk on it.
thane Pettrich we mak
5 Stình và đập. Tahu hitrim, cher a busenus in alliance
5/ Carany can styomie a Sey.
Ri. I am warned about integrity fees
ICES. It
сто 15 зар, Плесmer poor te Couthy
P. If Bryatt was y thuc tro tipping what hop phul dory by
* day, what would you say?
K: 20 home ne pron.
hị tin tronco no chalet Stats & Def have papirnat
prái tròn, lạnh Dũngủng to prepare it for you x chat
I menasisa langous com arhithicho it.
P. There
are. Vissues; one is the savictity of
1. bissent channel & and cathe
is testifying
clonter is.cecceptati. w/o
el
: asth a fast, Hung sxap
hoang vanda meno, 2.soll say we. thing them.
avi.core if cut out eptronson material in
sincách tô ímagine this case
с под
h. I thrute it iعلهم ج
into arhat
yon crout it & be, whmcdannt.
gets pintis inc paper I think yur
wl
от скла
werulh whithin this is card on which & bre
chang whis warning the is sing đất
SECRET
Beryatt...
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library
NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 7

!
night ayell to милая
lawyer point of wine, artiant.add
you usenet.
*. Amchic
P. From lawyer
Li Ramon of drmint
Rover of dromonto Miral parking.
matte & gore a Santo what is byt, if thine is
snmiền khánh, Thêm cụ in c
Atang prosition to digand a issue
K. Whatins jam pathn ahnt finns fuististijging..
LTChint tough-Resn't brow how you can
RI. You have to dyandthint on political not ayol gepaть
P. I think we have a dyonsible pration if ne
1. Hondastery .... Jäms officer by w/
i
choism of testing
Ieper w/ Haring positiin os w/ capect to
oversight coritis. But this is a serial emite
Gantumur
..
P: g thịt vre conto compitation whim tìnclau
сце
م
wat
progetto
tas puthi vụ can with... We canght to find
a casi antrich. anh gồm
both of that. Amu
: at han ll. This cuse to foll w/ in thiss
panmatus. On mithese schnh nhau
ryut track & Thal that mone
2 thình ve phone herhat
1
C
K 200 Fsos huve critter bitus, as home
outres pesh ke bingen, Ntu.
P. Let's sad of me can anat fact from in
R. Exept than you intinti dissent princes
Urmy chasints
an
box base...
cesshtips that Slay creantur fonts,
Cover)
NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 8
SECRET
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

Harcopening to domut.by...
promitinga umary fil
L!! Unyert back..
K... That I wanted.do
:
L
incnitiat of paying
eth.......
Ches are all chitiny iminsegured thr...
: thei
PiLeto look at..cell three ftinns
od all whorema
k. If I am arded to do it. All lo it, but I.....
::
: Chrink this isa
profondestue of fravigen
☑
poling.. prerigh forest. We che
enkechg
to a wotease pinigherjening selyom.
frut.......
seta bond case
P... But enithan is. Aint if you hit ben
& tore it egom home de donnaye
Kontes true.....
P...I trick.ce.com.cnfioititutum p
mihme the cyht care
R. Ietrit
1
we haths of fast a poterias empcritatin
Chom calyastanice this emiti
SECRET
Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library
NW 88608 Docld:32105704 Page 9
