JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 09/24/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER: 206-10001-10011
RECORDS SERIES: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: PFIAB
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD AGENDA
FOR MEETING OF JANUARY 25-26, 1963
DATE: 01/25/63
PAGES: 88
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR JANUARY 25 AND 26, 1963 MEETING

SUMMARY OF JANUARY 25 AND 26, 1963 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/14/98
OPENING CRITERIA: 08/01/2024
COMMENTS:

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88132
Docld:34671886 Page 1

206-10001-10011
CONFIDENTIAL
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MEETINGS OF JANUARY 25 & 26, 1968

ITEM TIME SUBJECT

January 25th

1. 10:00 - 10:15 Executive Session *

2. 10:15 - 11:30 Consideration of Draft Report to the President
on Board's Review of Cuba Situation

3. 11:30 - 12:30 Discussions with the Director of Central
Intelligence

4. 12:30 Lunch

5. 2:20 Depart Executive Office Building for
New State Department Building

6. 2:30 - 3:00 Meeting with the Secretary of State
(Approx.)

7. 3:00 Return to Board's Offices

8. 3:10 - 3:40 Report on Special Board Meeting with the
President on January 21, 1963
Dr. Killian

9. 3:40 to End of Resume Consideration of Item 2
Day

January 26th

10. 9:00 - 9:30 Executive Session

11. 9:30 Depart Executive Office Building for Pentagon

12. 9:45 - 10:55 Review of Results Obtained from Reconnaissance
Relating to the Military Buildup in Cuba
Lt. General Joseph Carroll, Director
Defense Intelligence Agency, Room 2 C 468
(Members will be met at the Mall Entrance)

13. 10:55 Depart 2 C 468

14. 11:00 - 11:30 Meeting with the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Room 2 E 873

15. 11:30 - 12:00 Meeting with the Secretary of Defense
Room 3 E 880

16. 12:00 Return to Washington - Lunch

17. 2:00 to End of Completion of Final Report to the President
Day on Board's Cuba Review and Discussion of
Future Board Business

-CONFIDENTIAL-

*Dr. Killian will be unable to join the meeting until after lunch;
at his request Mr. Gray has agreed to serve as Acting Chairman.

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992
Docid:2501
NWF21
Docld:34671886 Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
REVISED AGENDA FOR MEETING OF JANUARY 26, 1963

ITEM TIME SUBJECT

1. 9:00 - 9:30 Executive Session

2. 10:45 Depart Executive Office Building for Pentagon

3. 11:00 Review of Results Obtained from Reconnaissance
Relating to the Military Buildup in Cuba
Lt. General Joseph Carroll, Director
Defense Intelligence Agency, Room 2 C 468
(Members will be met at the Mall Entrance)

4. 12:25 Depart 2 C 468

5. 12:30 Meeting with the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Room 2 E 873

6. 1:00 Meeting with the Secretary of Defense
Room 3 E 280

7. 1:30 Return to Washington - Lunch

8. 2:45 to End of Completion of Final Report to the President
Day on Board's Cuba Review and Discussion of
Future Board Business

-CONFIDENTIAL

Docid:2501
NW 88132
Docld:34671886 Page 3

TOP SECRET
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Meeting of the President's Foreign Intelligence
Advisory Board, January 25-26, 1963

The Board convened in executive session at 10:15 a.m. on
January 25, 1963, on the first day of a two-day meeting in the
Board's offices, Room 297, Executive Office Building. Present
were Board members Gray, Baker, Land, Clifford, Pace, Doolittle,
Murphy, and Langer; and Messrs. Coyne and Ash.

Mr. Gray presided as acting Chairman in place of Dr. Killian
whose arrival was delayed by bad flying weather. Mr. Gray noted
that the DCI, Mr. McCone, had been called to testify before a
Congressional Committee and would therefore be unable to meet
with the Board at 11:30 as scheduled. The acting Chairman then
called for a general discussion of the Board's pending review and
draft report on the intelligence aspects of the circumstances
leading to the Cuba crisis.

Dr. Land expressed the view that although tidying up is an
obligation, and although looking back is a useful technique, the
Board's responsibilities go beyond the conduct of post mortems
for the purpose of identifying past mistakes in the foreign intel-
ligence field. Without detracting from the importance of the
Board's after-the-fact review of the Cuba situation, Dr. Land
thought it equally important that the Board become fully informed
on current developments as well.

Mr. Coyne called Dr. Land's attention to the fact that pre-
viously, in Dr. Land's absence, the Board Lad submitted a December
28, 1962, report to the President which was interim in nature, and
which contained recommendations looking ahead to the strengthening
of U. S. foreign intelligence capabilities in matters not necessarily
confined to the Cuba situation. Taking note of this, Dr. Land
nevertheless thought that the Board should make sure that it knows
what is going on in Cuba today and what are the intelligence and
related actions which are being taken by the U.S. intelligence
community with respect to the Soviet presence in Cuba...

Dr. Baker, referring to theBoard's December 28 interim report
on Cuba, felt that this is one of the most searching and far sighted
that the Board has produced, and he noted that the DCI's written

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

response to this report was devestatingly empty and inadequate.
Dr. Baker saw no excuse for the fact that the DIA had been afforded
only two days notice to comment on the Board's report prior to the
submission of views by the DCI. (Dr. Langer thought it incredible
that the DCI had given DIA only two days to comment on the Board's
December 28 interim report.) It was Dr. Baker's thought that such
a procedure was contrary to the general agreement which had been
previously reached with Mr. Bundy (in a discussion between Messrs.
Bundy, Baker and Coyne) that White House action memoranda flowing
from Board recommendations would go directly to the agencies pri-
marily concerned. With regard to the latter point, Mr. Coyne
observed that Mr. Bundy had in this instance acquiesced with the
DCI's request that the DCI obtain and report the coordinated views
of the various U. S. intelligence agencies concerned with the
matters covered in the Board's report.

Dr. Langer pointed out to Dr. Land that at the Board's last
meeting (which Dr. Land had been unable to attend) the Board had
been briefed on current aspects of the Cuba situation. Dr. Land,
pursuing the point which he had raised, hoped that the Board would
be able to avoid the submission of a "boiler plate" report on the
errors made in the intelligence handling of the Soviet build-up in
Cuba. Dr. Land said he thought that the draft of the final Board
report now before the Board was a good effor, but he hoped that
it would not draw from the agencies involved a book covering past
errors. It was Dr. Land's view that in the intelligence system there
should be someone who knows the whole story and can inform the Board
fully about it. Dr. Land's concern was that the intelligence ele-
ments involved may have been inept and that a year from now they
would be repeating the errors spotted in the Board's report, unless
the Board can get the agency heads to accept the Board's help in
profiting from lessons learned so that mistakes can be avoided in
the future.

Mr. Clifford observed that there is a question of timing in-
volved in the Board's present Cuba review, because the Board was
under a special assignment from the President to prepare a report.
Mr. Clifford thought that the Board would do a better service if
it made a hard-hitting report and recommendations, and then after
an appropriate interval the Board should ascertain whether the
recommendations were being put into effect and urge action on
those which the Board might find were not being implemented.

Dr. Land suggested that the Board should complete its work
on the present draft of its Cuba report and then take steps to get to
the heart of things with respect to intelligence plans and programs

TOP SECRET
regarding Cuba. He added that the Board's responsibilities go to
the effectiveness of the institution and framework within which
the U. S. intelligence community operates, the meeting of day-to-
day concerns which arise, and a determination as to whether re-
creation or reorganization is needed based on the "massive approach"
represented by the draft report which the Board had before it.

Mr. Murphy expressed agreement with points made by Dr. Land.
It was Mr. Murphy's view that the intelligence community apparently
does not know enough about what is presently happening in Cuba. He
thought that photographic coverage was not enough and what was
needed was deep cover clandestine agent coverage of Cuba. Dr. Land
added that it was not enough for the Board to make recommendations
but there should also be a "violent surveillance" of their imple-
mentation.

Noting the agenda for the day, Mr. Kurphy wondered what the
Chairman had in mind as to the nature and purpose of the Board's
scheduled visit to the Secretary of State. Mr. Gray recalled that
when Mr. Bundy had met with the Board previously he had suggested
that in the course of the Board's Cuba review it might well be use-
ful to discuss with the Secretary's of State and Defense, and the
Chairman of the JCS, their views regarding the U. S. intelligence
coverage given to the Soviet buildup in Cuba. Mr. Gray added that
it was his impression that Mr. Bundy's suggestion had been based
not only on the obtaining of facts pertinent to the Board's review
for intelligence purposes, but also in anticipation of a Congressional
investigation which might be made of the Cuba expérience.

Mr. Murphy thought it important that the Board organize its
interview to be had with the Secretary of State. Mr. Gray suggested
that without going into a re-hash of the chronological summary of
the intelligence aspects, the Board's questions to Secretary Rusk
should include those which would determine the Secretary's views on
what would have been done differently, from the vantage point of
hindsight, with respect to intelligence handling of the Cuba devel-
opment; whether there was a proper weighing of the risks and the
intelligence advantages involved in overflights of Cuba; whether the
intelligence analysis and reporting processes were hindered by pre-
conceived views of U. S. "Sovietologists"; and whether raw intelli-
gence reports were adequately communicated to the White House (Mr
Gray recalling that Mr. Bundy had expressed to him the belief that
the President should have been informed of the contents of some of
these reports regarding the sightings of offensive missiles in
Cuba prior to the photography of October 14).

TOP SECRET
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
January 26, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
SUBJECT: Cuba

In the course of the Board meeting of January 25, 1963,
the Board members and Mr. Coyne met at the State Department
with the Secretary of State, Assistant Secretary Alexis Johnson
and Mr. Roger Hilsman, Director of Intelligence and Research,
Department of State.

Utilizing the memorandum (copy attached) which contained a
series of questions which had been drafted earlier in the day by
the Board, the Board members elicited Secretary Rusk's views on
a variety of intelligence subjects pertaining to the pre-buildup
and post-buildup period in Cuba.

At the outset Secretary Rusk stated that the two Administra-
tions must share the responsibility for Cuba and that each in turn
has taken full responsibility for what was done or what was not
done during their respective Administrations. He noted that Cuba
is a national problem; that because of it "we came up up to the edge
of incineration in the Western Hemisphere"; and that he personally
has a deep anxiety over the question as to where we go from here.
He observed that in the case of a Communist take-over in Cuba or
anywhere else, it is easier to prevent the occurrence than it is
to correct it once it has taken place.

The Secretary was queried as to whether he agreed with the
Board's present finding that from October 14 onward there was an
effective performance by the intelligence community in supplying
support in the policy decision process with respect to the Cuba
situation. The Secretary agreed stating the intelligence community
performance from October 14 onward was superb. He stated that this
performance enabled the panels of the NSC Executive Committee to
recommend the establishment of positions on which the Government
as a whole could and did act.

Secretary Rusk was next queried as to whether he agreed with
the Board's present findings that, prior to October 14 the intelli-
gence performance was clearly deficient and that perhaps this de-
ficiency was not fully known to the Department of State at the time..
The Secretary observed that this was a complex question and a
difficult one to answer. He felt it was terribly important that,

TOP SECRET

as an outgrowth of the review of how the intelligence community
acquitted itself, we not paralyze the community as was done by
the Robert's Commission on Pearl Harbor day". He observed that
from the point of view of high policy we have got to depend on
people who see a great inflow of information and we must depend
on them to give us balanced judgments, particularly in such a
large area of operation as the Department of State where over
one thousand cables are received and dispatched daily.

The Secretary stated that it was his impression that in mid
September 1962 the intelligence community did not expect the Soviet
Union to put MRBMs or IRBMs in Cuba; that this was the impression
at higher policy-advisory levels; and that because of this over-
all judgment it is possible that intelligence analysts were
diverted from the main point, namely, that offensive missiles
were going in. He thought this diversion might also have been
based upon the September 19 estimate of the intelligence community
and that that estimate might have had the effect of the analysts
feeling that they should pursue a "hands off attitude" as far as
anything that came up which concerned the USSR's introduction of
offensive missiles. He said the lesson to be learned from this is
that some means must be found to assure that we do not take any-
thing for granted in these areas. Also a means must be found for
stimulating the expression of reservations at policy levels, noting
that it is not easy to make these reservations operational.

The Secretary stated that if one looks at the problem of
intelligence in terms of the time factors involved he thought
one would find that even before October 14 our intelligence was.
"pretty good". He observed that except for two of the long-range
sites, overflights ten days earlier than October 14 would have
seen nothing

Mr. Murphy noted that the last observation of the Secretary
seemed to suggest exclusive dependence on photographs. To this
the Secretary observed that in its interim report the Board had
called attention to the need for re-enforcing classical intelli-
gence means. The Secretary said that he agreed with the Board's
point and that he considered it extremely important. He said the
Department is prepared to provide cover to the CIA, CIA, but that
other means must be developed as soon as possible; otherwise if
there is undue dependenceon diplomatic cover embarrasment's would
become greatly increased. He noted that already the United States
Government has had "many problem cases" involving CIA cover. He
noted also that a good rule is now being followed in this area,
a rule which precludes a CIA agent to target in his country of
assignment. The Secretary emphasized the view that our government

TOP SECRET

has "under-played old fashioned espionage". He observed that it
is easy to fly U-2s but that such flights inevitably bring up
international problems since they violate sovereignty; and there-
fore the Department of State welcomes the idea of beefing up
traditional espionage activities which are not dependent upon
diplomatic cover.

The Board next inquired as to whether the Secretary believed
that the interests and requirements of the intelligence community
were aggressively spoken for at the policy level during the pre-
October 14 period. He responded that the United States would have
been better off with more intensive air (U-2 plane) coverage during
the period beginning October 1, but at that time reports were
sketchy, there was the problem of the stand-down of the U-2 because
of the Chinat loss, weather conditions were not optimum, etc. Re-
verting to the principal question asked of him the Secretary expressed
the view that the Special NSC 5412/2 Group operated adequately and is
now operating adequately. He said that he is in touch with the Group
from time to time on its plans and he noted that on the matter of in-
telligence collecion flights we have run 2500 peripheral flights
around the Soviet Union and every one of them is to some degree
dangerous. He said that the President and he personally examine
the particularly sensitive flights that are proposed. He noted
that in the State Department intelligence requirements of the
community are accepted in this area and that the Department goes
along with the overwhelming number of flights proposed. He said
that in the case of Cuban overflights he personally made two sug-
gestions during the period in question. The first involved the step-
up of peripheral flights around Cuba as a cover for putting flights
over the island when we wanted to and he said that he had told the
OAS representatives about this, noting that the "risks of strays"
of such peripheral flights was "very high". His second suggestion
involved breaking up one or two proposed flights into segments of
four flights (the Board members were fully cognizant of this).
Mr. Gray made reference to the delays which necessarily resulted
from breaking the proposed mission into a four-segmented one. He
inquired of the Secretary as to whether he had been advised of the
fact that delays would necessarily result from his suggested amend-
ment of the mission. The Secretary replied in the negative.

At this point Dr. Land observed that there is not enough
personified pressure from intelligence; that a concentrated
statement of intelligence requirements and purposes should be
constantly served up to the policy level from suspicious intelli-
gence personalities and that these, of course, should be subject
to ultimate decision by the Secretary of State and others of high

TOP SECRET

authority. The Secretary took issue with a portion of Dr. Land's
statement on the grounds that it assumed that there is no one in
the intelligence community who has any policy responsibility.
The Secretary said that he thought this was incorrect because
the Director of Central Intelligence frequently acted as one
having policy responsibilities

The Secretary observed that while the intelligence needs are
great there are other requirements which the United States must
take into account and that these must all be balanced out. He
emphasized again at this point that overflying another country
in peacetime is a difficult thing.

The Secretary then reverted to the question of traditional
espionage and expressed the view that "we have gotten a little
lazy on espionage". He noted that during World War II excellent
espionage results were obtained by virtue of a "most fabulous!
combination of blue bloods and thugs". The Secretary favored
resumption now of this World War II practice

At this point Dr. Killian inquired of the Secretary as to
whether he was satisfied that Mr. McCone's report on Cuba dated
December 26th reflects a fair statement of the State Departments
views. The Secretary said he had been unable to examine the
report fully; that he had complete confidence in the relationships
which his Department has with Mr. McCone, but that he would take
exception to "the juxta-position of things on the four-flight
matter". Mr. Hilsman joined the Secretary in this view. The
Secretary urged that the Board members be as analytical as pos-
sible in examining the Cuba situation. He encouraged them to
remember the "atmosphere of the times". He hoped the Board would
be "as precise as possible" in examining the overflight matter
stating that "if you think the U-2 is not serious, you are on the
wrong track"

Mr. Gray indicated that it was the Board's understanding that
the President approved all overflights recommended, and he then
suggested that apparently there were some flights that were not
rejected, but neither were they made. To this the Secretary
stated that what ought to be looked at were the flights that
were laid on from September 20 to October 5 or 6. He noted that
during this period, following the September 19 estimate of the
intelligence community on Cuba, there was some delay in distrib-
uting reports from refugee and agent sources on the sightings fof
long-range missiles in Cuba. He again noted that just prior to
this period there was a loss of a Chinat operated U-2 over the

TOP SECRET

China mainland on September 9. On the latter point Dr. Langer
inquired whether the Secretary felt that flights over Cuba were
in the same category as flights over the Soviet Union or over
China. The Secretary responded in the negative noting that "we
felt much greater freedom of action in the case of Cuba". Mr.
Hillsman added on this point that the USIB felt that two U-2
flights a month over Cuba were adequate

The Secretary recalled that early in October he was requested
to authorize overflights based on indications of two specific sites
and he said he immediately approved.

Mr. Gray observed that there appeared to be some confusion as
to whether we had a policy of not overflying SA-2 sites, and
Secretary Johnson responded that the matter of overflying SA-2's
invariably came up in the Special Group but that he could not recall
any prohibition on overflying such sites. Secretary Johnson added
that in the Special Group he could not recall any kind of operation
ever being recommended where the atmosphere was as relaxed as it
was in the case of recommendations pertaining to the Cuba problem.

Mr. Hilsman stated that at the operational level there was
concern about losing a pilot over Cuba. Consequently a CORONA
Mission was programmed for Cuba from September 21 to September 24
Mr. Hilsman thought this concern over the loss of a man may have
been a factor which contributed to the low number of U-2 flights
flown.

The Secretary was asked whether he was satisfied with the
national estimating process and whether he considered that State
Department participation therein was provided for adequately.
The Secretary thought that State Department participation in the
preparation of national intelligence estimates was adequately.
provided for. He said that from the point of view of the policy
officer it is essential that he know what the intelligence people
think; that on the other hand the policy officer wants to avoid
taking the intelligence view as "the Bible", and he wishes to
find a way for the intelligence community to "throw in contrary
indicators in their estimates in order that they might be flagged
for the policy maker."

The Secretary was then asked if he felt that the intelligence
community analytical, estimative and reporting functions in the
Cuba situation were hindered by international political consider-
ations or by preconceived views of "Sovietologists" regarding Soviet

TOP SECRET

intentions with respect to Cuba. The Secretary responded that
he did not believe that the "Sovietologists" did what has been
claimed. He did not believe that they had much influence on
estimates: He thought, however, he detected an insufficient
alertness on their part to the possibility that the estimates
of the intelligence community were were wrong. He expressed the
observation on this point that the direct indicators came in
after the September 19 estimate was prepared

The Secretary was next queried as to whether we are currently
informed in an adequate manner about Soviet objectives and activ-
ities in Cuba today. The Secretary responded that the principal
gap is our inability to prove the negative because of the absence
of on-site inspections. He said we are running overflights regu-
larly; that we have improved our cooperation with allied govern-
ments in Cuba; but that we do not know for certain what the Soviet
objectives are insofar as Cuba is concerned

When queried as to U. S. Government knowledge as to the
purpose of Mikoyan's stay in Cuba and as to what Mikoyan accom-
plished, the Secretary stated that he thought we know a great
deal about the Mikoyan mission. He noted that for ten days
Castro would not talk to Mikoyan. He said that we are getting
much better information regarding Castro and particularly Castro's
efforts in inspiring other Latin American countries. The Secre-
tary expressed the thought that the Soviet Union may be deciding
that Cuba is not the proper base from which to launch their Latin
American operations. He said rewarding gains have been made in
attempting to obstruct travel between Cuba and the Free World.
He conceded, however, that we do not have the Cuba-Russian plan,
adding that we have not penetrated the Cuban regime as well as he
hopes we might be able to later.

The Secretary was asked with reference to the Monroe Doctrine,
whether the Department of State has urged an aggressive intelligence
collection effort to define any new violation of the Doctrine. The
Secretary thought it would not be too profitable to concentrate on
this point and it would be more profitable to concentrate on the
Rio Pact. He agreed, however, that the Doctrine is violated by
the presence of the Marxist-Leninist system in the Western Hemis-
phere for he said there is no question whatever about the Soviet
presence in Cuba.

In conclusion the Secretary stated that he thought "our
intelligence on Cuba today is not complete but it is not deficient

J. Patrick Coyne

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

January 25, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE BOARD

SUBJECT: Board Meeting of January 25 - 26, 1963

For the information of the Board members the following documents
are enclosed:

Tab 1: Memorandum for the President from the Board dated
January 19, 1963, concerning the handling of OXCART
and of projects in the Department of Defense associ-
ated with OXCART.

Tab 2: Board's Interim Report to the Tresident dated
December 28, 1962, and the DCI's 1/22/63 response thereto.

Tab 3: Draft of final report to the President on the
Board's comprehensive study of intelligence
activities relating to the military buildup in Cuba.

Tab 4: Memorandum for the Chairman from Mr. McGeorge Bundy
dated January 9, 1963, concerning Presidential in-
structions relative to control of intelligence infor-
mation on offensive weapons in Cuba.

Tab 5: Memorandun on Mr. Ash's review of Special Group
records pertaining to developments in Cuba.

Tab 6: CIA memorandum concerning cable correspondence between
CIA headquarters and Mr. McCone while in Europe
(August 30 - September 21, 1962)

Tab 7: General Chronology of Events in Cuba, 1957 - 1962,
prepared by the Board's staff.*

Tab 8: General Chronology of Specific Events Relating to the
Military Buildup in Cuba, prepared by the Board's
staff.

Reviewed at earlier meetings of the Board

HANDLE VIA BYEMAN HANDLE VIA TALENT-KEYHOLE CHANNELS -TOP SECRET
CHANNELS ONLY
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

SPECIAL LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

Tab 9: Memorandum concerning CIA Field Station Reports
(received by NSC or White House staff elements)
dealing with the military buildup prior to
October 14, 1962.*

Tab 10: CIA Memorandum concerning the Caribbean Admissions
Center, Opa locka, Florida.*

Tab 11: Memorandum for Mr. Bundy from Mr. Ray Cline, CIA,
entitled "The Effect of Weather on Overflights
of Cuba, 29 August - 14 October 1962".

Tab 12: Report by the Director of Central Intelligence to the
Board on "Intelligence Community Activities Relating
to the Cuban Arms Buildup".*

Tab 13: Letter to the Chairman from Mr. Murphy dated Dec. 8, 1962.

J. Patrick Coyne

Reviewed at earlier meetings of the Board

HANDLE VIA BYEMAN HANDLE VIA TALENT-KEYHOLE CHANNELS TOP SECRET
CHANNELS ONLY HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
January 11, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: CUBA (Review on 1/10/63 of Records of the
Special NSC 5412/2 Group)

On 1-10-63 the writer reviewed in the offices of Mr. Tom
Parrott, Executive Secretary, Special NSC 5412/2 Group, the
records of the Special Group which Mr. Parrott identified as
relating to considerations given by the Special Group to recon-
naissance and covert action operations with regard to Cuba.
(Attached hereto is a copy, supplied by Mr. Parrott from his
records, of a "Memorandum for the Record" dated 10/21/62 on
the subject "Reconnaissance of Cuba" which Mr. Parrött had
prepared for another purpose.)

There follows a detailed summary of the results of a
review made by the writer of the Cuba items referred to in
Mr. Parrott's summary memorandum; and of other items which
the writer reviewed in the Special Group records pertaining
to Cuba.

Minutes of Meetings of the Special Group
(Augmented) "MONGOOSE"

Minutes of the July 12, 1962 Meeting
of the Special Group (Augmented)

Those present were the Attorney General, Mr. Johnson,
Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone, General Carter, General Lemnitzer,
General Lansdale, and Dr. Cline (for part of the meeting).

The Group noted a paper presented by the State Department,
member concerning "Guideline for a post-Castro Political
Program."..

General Lansdale briefed the Group on the number of agents
now in Cuba, including legal residents, plus infiltrated teams.
It was decided that a CIA proposal, for resupply of agent teams
and possibly of resistance groups, should be deferred pending
a broader review of the entire situation. General Taylor
specified, however, that if an urgent need arose for air supply
at any time, the proposal could be made to the Special Group
(Augmented).

Mr. McCone and General Lansdale stated that a sizable
number of 'ntelligence reports were coming out of Cuba,
largely on political and economic matters. Mr. McCone emphasized

Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

that no high-level penetration of the Cuban Government had been
achieved. In answer to a question from the Attorney General,
General Lansdale said that intelligence indicated that although
there was widespread dissatisfaction with Castro, there was
no rallying point for active opposition.

The Attorney General and Mr. Johnson emphasized the need
for an effort to obtain hard intelligence on subversive activi-
ties by the Castro regime in the Hemisphere, Mr. McCone noting
that such efforts to date had been fruitless.

Dr. Cline showed the Group the extent of reconnaissance.
coverage of Cuba. Mr. McCone emphasized that this program has
developed complete information on deployments and facilities
for the Army, Navy, and Air Force, and he particularly noted
that these missions have verified that there is sufficient
logistic support for a 75,000-man military force. "No missile
sites have been found."

The Group agreed on a complete review of MONGOOSE toward
the end of July, with participation by the Secretaries of State
and Defense. General Taylor emphasized that in the preparation
for such review, there would be a need for summaries of results
obtained to date, of intelligence developed, and of future
alternatives opened to the United States (including possible
activities in other parts of Latin America).

Mr. Johnson said that the State Department is investigating
the possibilities for subsidizing Japanese purchases of Dominican
sugar to divert purchases from Cuba and thereby deprive Cuba
of a source of dollars, and Mr. Johnson asked that MONGOOSE
operational representatives lock into this further. Mr. McCone
said that the CIA could use unvouchered funds for this purpose;
but it would be illegal to use covert funds as a means of
evading the intent of Congress.

Minutes of the October 4, 1962 Meeting
of the Special Group (Augmented)

Those present for this meeting with regard to Operation
MONGOOSE were the Attorney General, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric,
General Lansdale, Mr. McCone, General Carter, and Mr. Wilson.

The Attorney General informed the Group that higher authority
was concerned about progress on the MONGOOSE program and felt
that more priority should be given to trying to mount sabotage
operations. The Attorney General wondered if a new look were

Handle Via' TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
Handle via DiAll
Control System

not required in view of the meager results obtained, especially
in the sabotage field, and he urged "massive activity" within
the entire MONGOOSE framework.

General Langdale thought that another attempt should be
made against the major target which had been the subject of
three unsuccessful missions and he said that six new missions
were in the planning stage.

Mr. Johnson said that the "massive activity" would have
to come from within, and he hoped to be able to present soon
to the Group a plan for giving Cuban exiles more of a free hand,
fully realizing that this will give additional visibility to
their activities. Mr. McCone reserved judgment on the feasi-
bility and desirability of such a program, and Mr. Johnson
agreed that he had reservations as well.

Mr. McCone said that he had received the impression
that although high levels of our Government wanted increased
activity, they still want to keep it at a low noise level,
but Mr. McCone did not believe this would be possible and he
felt that any sabotage would be blamed on the United States.
Mr. MeCone cited the enormous number of telephone calls
directed at CIA at the time the skin divers landed in east
Cuba, and the time that the Cuban exile students shot up the
apartment house. Mr. McCone therefore urged that responsible
officials be prepared to accept a higher noise level if they
want to get on with operations.

The Attorney General, n partial rebuttal, said that the
reasons people had such concern were. (a) the fact that the skin.
c.vers were Americans, and (b) the fact that the