AGENCY : PFIAB
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 09/24/98
Page: 1

RECORD NUMBER: 206-10001-10006
RECORDS SERIES : PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM
TO
TITLE : MINUTES OF BOARD MEETING OF APRIL 2 AND 3, 1964
DATE : 04/02/64
PAGES : 8
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR APRIL 2 AND 3, 1963 MEETING

SUMMARY OF APRIL 2 AND 3, 1963 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88132
Docld:34671881 Page 1

206-10001-10006

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

MINUTES
OF
BOARD
MEETING
OF
APRIL 2 and 3,
1964

206-1001-10005
NW 185
Docld:2496
NW11
Docld:34671881 Page 2

TOP SECRET
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MEETINGS OF APRILL 2 and 3, 1964
ITEM TIME SUBJECT
April 2, 1964
1. 9:00 9:30 Chairman's Tine
2. 9:30 1:00 Reports on Recent Study Made by Board's Panel
(Chairman Baker, Doolittle and Land) on NRO
Activities, including highlights of:
a. Baker/Coyne Discussions with Mr. McCone
Dr. Baker
b. Baker/Coyne Discussions with Dr. McMillan
Dr. Baker
c. Doolittle/Baker/Coyne Discussions with
General Greer, Los Angeles-
General Doolittle
d. Baker/Doolittle/Coyne Discussions with
Representatives of Lockheed and Itek
Dr. Baker
e. Doolittle/Coyne Discussions with
Kelly Johnson and Visit to Ox Site
General Doolittle
f. Doolittle/Coyne Visits to Satellite
Launching (Vandenberg) and On-Orbital
Control Synnyvale) Facilities
General Doolittle
g. Panel meeting with:
(1) Secretary McMillan, Director, NRO
(2) General Martin, Chief of Staff, NRO
(3) Mr. Eugene Keifer, Deputy Director, NRO
(4) Dr. Eugene Fubini, Assistant Secretary:
of Defense
(5) Messrs. Carter, Wheelon, Bross and
Ledford of CIA
Mr. Coyne
h. Assessment of Degree to which NRO Agreement
is Presently Being Implemented
Dr. Baker
TOP SECRET
NW-185
Docld 2496
NW 89?
Docld:34671881 Page 3

TOP SECRET
April 2 Agenda (Continued):
ITEM TIME SUBJECT
1. Proposals for Revisions in NRO Agreement,
Organization, and Operations
(1) Proposals of Dr. McMillan
(2) Proposals of Mr. Mc Cone
(3) Proposals of Board Panel
Dr. Baker
3. 1:00 2:00 Lunch White House Mess
4. 2:00 2:45 NRO Satellite Reconnaissance Activities as
Related to the Air Force Systems Command
General Bernard A. Schriever, USAF
5. 2:45 3:30 CIA Monitorship of the NRO
Dr. Albert D. Wheelon
Deputy Director for Science and Technology, CIA
6. 3:30 4:15 Defense Department Monitorship of the NRO
Dr. Eugene G. Fubini
Assistant Secretary of Defense
7. 4:15 4:30 Executive Session
8. 4:30 6:00 Discussions of the National Reconnaissance
Office, Agreement and Programs
Mr. John A. Mc Cone.
Director of Central Intelligence
April 3, 1964
9. 9:00 9:15 Chairman's Time
10. 9:15 9:30 Oral Report on Recent Developments Relating
to the National Signals Intelligence (SIGINT)
Program
Dr. Baker and Mr. Coyne
11. 9:30 10:30 The National Signals Intelligence Program
Dr. Eugene Fubini
Assistant Secretary of Defense
12. 10:30 - 11:00 Executive Session
13. 11:00 12:00 Discussions of the NRO Agreement, Management,
and Programs
Mr. Cyrus Vance
Deputy Secretary of Defense
2
TOP SECRET
Docld:2496
NWg?
Docld:34671881 Page 4

TOP SECRET
April 3 Agenda (Continued):
ITEM TIME SUBJECT
14. 12:00 1:00 Briefing on the World Situation
Mr. Ray Cline
Deputy Director/Intelligence, CIA
15. 1:00 2:00 Lunch White House Mess
16. 2:00 2:15 Status Report on Implementation of Board's
Recommendations Growing Out of the Dunlap Case
Mr. Coyne
17. 2:15 2:30 Status Report on Implementation of Other Recent
Major Recommendations Made by the Board
Mr. Ash
18. 2:30 End of Preparation by the Board of a Report on NRO *
Day
* The Chairman will outline his views as to the handling of
this report (a) initially with Secretary McNamara and
Mr. Bundy and (b) ultimately with the President.

TOP SECRET
NW 185
Docld 2496
NW 88192
Docld:34671881 Page 5

TOP SECRET
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
September 10, 1964
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
SUBJECT: President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board
Meeting of April 2-3, 1964

A regularly scheduled two-day meeting of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board was convened by Chairman
Clifford at 9:00 a.m., April 2, 1964, in the Eoard's offices,
Room 297, Executive Office Building. Present were Board
members Doolittle, Gray, Baker, Langer, Pace and Murphy;
J. Patrick Coyne, Executive Secretary; and A. R. Ash.
(Dr. Land was unavoidably detained at the Boston airport, and
joined the Board meeting later in the day.)

Chairman Clifford opened the meeting with some general
remarks, first congratulating Mr. Murphy on the excellence of
his recently published and well-received book "Diplomat Among
Warriors Other Board members joined in the sentiments ex-
pressed by the Chairman.

Next Mr. Clifford expressed the Board's gratitude to the
Board Panel on NRO matters for the long and difficult task
involved in the Panel's extensive study of the NRO management
and organization structure and attendant problems. He noted
that Dr. Baker and General Doolittle had been devoting the
majority of their time to the study, with inestimable assis-
tance from Mr. Coyne. The Chairman thought that in the NRO
matter the Board had probably made the most exhaustive analysis
of any intelligence-related problem up to this time.

Chairman Clifford announced that in a few minutes the
meeting would be joined briefly by Mr. Henry Thomas of CIA for
the purpose of indoctrinating Board members concerning two new
security clearance categories (DORIAN and QUILL) covering two
extremely sensitive areas of intelligence activity.

Mr. Clifford recalled that when the Board met with the
President on January 30, the President had sought the Board's
views on a proposed reduction in the Military Services repre-
sentation on the U.S. Intelligence Board -- the Board expres-
sing its long-held view that such reduction should be made at
an appropriate time. Mr. Clifford went on to inform the Board
that on February 5, 1964, Presidential Assistant McGeorge Bundy
had issued a memorandum to the intelligence community, announcing
the President's decision to reconstitute the USIB membership.
by designating the Director of DIA as the Defense Department
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Doald 2496
NW 89
Docld:34671881 Page 6
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
Mr. Clifford pointed out that the DCI feels that because the NRO
is presently set up as a "line" organization in the Air Force, a great deal.
goes on that the DCI does not know about, e.g., after USIB sets out intelligence
requirements for NRO to execute, the DCI does not have an opportunity to
examine the effectiveness of the program. Mr. Vance agreed that the DCI should
be kept fully informed, but if weather conditions, for example, require that
a 5-day mission be called down on the third day, this is the kind of operational
decision that should not have to involve the DCI.

Dr. Baker referred to concerns which have been expressed regarding the
tendency toward a fragmentation of effort in the reconnaissance field within
the Defense Department, as for example in the case of the MOL. Noting that
Defense is the greatest resource for national reconnaissance, Dr. Baker asked
whether consideration had been given to relating the JRC to the NRO, with a
view to avoiding unnecessary duplication of peripheral reconnaissance missions,
the reduction of costs, and the placing of emphasis on meeting national require-
ments. Mr. Vance replied that tying the JRC into the NRO suggests some command
channel problems, but he thought the suggestion very worth while, and he
expressed the intention to consider it further.

Dr. Langer referred to the system of monitors of the NRP in Defense and
in the CIA, and he asked whether the Director of NRO in fact reports to
Dr. Fubini in Defense. Mr. Vance replied that, to the contrary, the Director
reports directly to Mr. Vance and to Secretary McNamara. He added that as an
internal matter Dr. Pubini monitors NRO matters for the office of the Secretary
of Defense and Mr. Vance would continue this internal Defense arrangement but
would clearly spell out the role of the PFIAB, et al, to accomplish external
monitoring.

Secretary Vance completed his discussion with Board members and left
the Board meeting at 11:50 a.m.

In executive session, Board members further discussed the question of
appropriate assignment to CIA of a role in the NRP -- with the object of
preserving the valuable research and development potential of the CIA. Mr. Joyne
noted that the Board Panel had heard testimony that CIA is heavily involved
in reconnaissance research and development, but that this was not yet supported.
by the evidence thus far assembled. Mr. Coyne added that under the Vance.
proposal to leave aircraft projects in CIA, this would include 9 OXCART aircraft
2 U-2's at Taiwan, 3 U-2's at Lockheed undergoing configuration for carrier
operations, and aircraft engaged in the STPOLLY project. Mr. Coyne also noted
that of the 694 personnel providing support for CIA's aircraft reconnaissance
activities, 350 are AF personnel assigned to the CIA.

At 12:10 p.m. the Board meeting was joined by Mr. Ray Cline, Deputy...
Director for Intelligence, and Mr. Bruce Clark, of CIA. Mr. Clifford indicated
to Mr. Cline the Board's interest in receiving a current intelligence briefing
on aspects of the world situation.

Mr. Cline informed the Board that his job at CIA is the correlation and
evaluation of intelligence relating to the national ional 1 secur security. v. With reference
to the state of the art in the field of intelligence analysis, Mr. Cline pointed
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY 32
TOP SECRET
NW-185
NWP881626
Docld:34671881 Page 7

Docld 2496
TOP SECRET

and storable high energy propellant fuel.

As for Soviet MRBM's and IRBM's, Mr. Cline said that there are over
700 launchers, mostly in the Western USSR; deployment is almost complete;
and there is evidence of some hardening (four silos have been discovered).

Mr. Cline said that it is not cervain as to how much the USSR intends
to invest in the development of an anti-missile missile. Satellite photography
is the key. A March 1964 photo of Leningrad shows 5 distinctive bays at launch
sites, but it is indicated that the USSR probably suspended construction in 1963.

In further emphasis on the importance of special search satellite
photography, Mr. Cline said that a GAMBIT mission has not yet been run over a
huge mystery structure recently revealed in photography of Moscow.

Mr. Cline reported that yesterday the Soviets had launched a space probe
to Venus, the time of arrival estimated as July 22.

Concerning the recent release of the CIA estimate on the Soviet economy,
Mr. Cline said that despite the welter of denials and counterattacks by the
USSR, the CIA has indications that its estimate was correct. The first "Pravda"
blast contained statistics confirming the CIA's estimate of a 3 per cent gain
in the Soviet GNP. The next issue of Pravda omitted these statistics.

As for the Sino-Soviet conflict, Mr. Cline stated that this deep and
bitter struggle reflects opposing national interests and policy views, and is
a contest for dominance which is nearing the breaking point. The anti-Soviet
vituperation coming out of Communist China is unprecedented. CIA's clandestine
reporting indicates that the Chicoms are attempting to subvert Soviet leadership
around the world, and to discredit Khrushchev in the USSR. Exchanges of secret
Party letters indicate that a Sino-Soviet break must come. The basis of the
dispute seems to be the failure of the USSR to provide the economic and military
support which China needed in crder to enlarge its industrial capacity. Pubiic
exchanges of insults, and intelligence from various sources, shows that the
breach began in 1960 from differences of policy with regard to degree of risk
of war which should be acceptable to Communism in its actions affecting the West.
Also there is a lot of prejudice against China in the Soviet military. Mr. Ciine
does not think that Sino-Soviet differences can be resolved so long as Mao and
Khrushchev are in positions of leadership.

With regard to Indian border action by the Chinese Communists, Mr. Cline
thought that this move was for the purpose of getting control of a part of the
route for a transcontinental railroad.

In Vietnam, Mr. Cline said, the U. S. mission has given General Khanh
a breathing spell to get a grip on the political and military machine. There
is a little more confidence within the South Vietnam government. The Viet Cong
has not launched attacks on the larger scale expected when Khanh took over, but
guerrilla activities have increased and 3 province chiefs have been killed or
kidnapped in the last few weeks. In North Vietnam, recent intelligence indicates,
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
NW-8327
Docld:34671881 Page 8
TOP SECR

TOP SECRET

there is civil defense activity including the digging of shelters and
trenches. Last night the Interagency Task Force on Vietnam discussed the
problem and concluded that things are on dead center as far as the South
Vietnam war effort is concerned, and more U. S. support may be necessary
before the rainy season sets in in September. The Viet Cong are getting
Chicom help, mostly psychological; captured weapons indicate that 10 per cent
are of Chinese crigin; many of their weapons are of U. S. and French origin;
and some are hand made.

Mr. Cline concluded his briefing and departed the Board meeting at
1:10 p.m. at which time the Board adjourned for lunch.

At 2:00p.m. the Board resumed in executive session. Chairman Clifford
remarked that the sessior: with Mr. Cline of CIA had been valuable and that
there would be similar briefings arranged for future Board meetings. Mr.
Clifford asked that Board members let Mr. Coyne know ahead of time the subject
matters which they wish to have covered in current intelligence briefings.

Next, Mr. Coyne gave the Board an oral summary of implementing actions
reportedly under way in response to the Board's recommendations in the Dunlap
case. It was noted that in answer to Mr. Bundy's referral of the Board's
recommendations to the DCI for agencies' consideration and the preparation of a
coordinated report by the DCI, the latter had failed to coordinate with other
agencies with respect to 9 of the 21 recommendations. Mr. Coyne had discussed
this with Mr. Bundy who agreed that the DCI should have furnished a coordinated
report of agencies' views and conments, and Mr. Bundy had asked Mr. Coyne to
prepare an appropriate further communication for Mr. Bundy's signature. In
answer to a question by Dr. Langer, the Chairman thought it best to see whether
the DCI complies with the request for a coordinated report, before suggesting
that Mr. Bundy go directly to the agencies.

During the Board's discussion of action reported on its Dunlap case
recommendation relating to the Soviet Union's attempt to obtain new Embassy
quarters in Washington, General Doolittle expressed the hope that steps would
be taken by U. S. intelligence agencies to ensure technical coverage of any
new Embassy that might be constructed for the USSR.

Mr. Ash summarized for the Board recent reports received on the implemen-
tation of Recommendation 3 (CIA-State report); Recommendation 35 (DCI report);
and Old Board Recommendation 3 on the status of JCS-CIA intelligence planning
for wartime emergencies. With regard to the latter, the Chairman asked that
there be put on the agenda of the next Board meeting the matter of the JCS-CIA
suggestion that annual status reports be discontinued.

Chairman Clifford asked that Board members next proceed to discuss the
type of report that the Board would make to the President concerning the NRO.
The Chairman asked Dr. Baker, as head of the Board's NRO Panel, to discuss the
reasons for changes in the NRO as recommended in the draft report which the
Panel had placed before the Board.

35
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
NW 185
Docid:2496
NWF828
Docld:34671881 Page 9
TOP SECRET
