AGENCY: PFIAB
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 09/24/98-
Page: 1

RECORD NUMBER : 206-10001-10003
RECORDS SERIES : PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD AGENDA
FOR MEETING OF NOVEMBER 21-22, 1963
DATE: 11/21/63
PAGES : 22
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR NOVEMBER 21 AND 22, 1963 MEETING

SUMMARY OF NOVEMBER 21 AND 22, 1963 MEETING:

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992

206-10001-10003

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

206-10001-10003

PRESIDENT'S POREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA POR MEETING OF NOVEMBER 21 - 22, 1963

ITEM TIME SUBJECT
SECRET

1. 9:00 - 9:30 November 21, 1963
Chairman's Time

2. 9:30 - 10:30 Board Panel's Review of the Dunlap
Espionage Case and its Ramifications
Messrs. Clifford, Gray, Doolittle

3. 10:30 - 11:30 Actions Taken and Contemplated by NSA
Based on its Study of the Dunlap Case
Lt. General Gordon A. Blake, USAF,
Director of NSA

4. 11:30 - 12:00 Executive Session

5. 12:00 - 1:00 Results of U. S. Army's Study of Dunlap Case
and of Counterintelligence and Personnel
Security Screening Processes Applied to
Army Personnel..
Major General Alva K. Fitch, Assistant Chier
of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the Army

6. 1:00 - 1:30 Executive Session

7. 1:30 - 2:15 Lunch - White House Mess

8. 2:15 - 3:00 Executive Session

9. 3:30 - 4:30 Assessment of the Adequacy of the Several
Defense. Department Reviews as an Outgrowth
of the Dunlap and Related Espionage Penetra-
tions.
Lt. General Joseph F. Carroll, USAF,
Director, DIA

10. 4:30 - 6:30 Discussion and Drafting of Material to be
Included in Report to the President.

-SECRET-

ITEM TIME SUBJECT -SECRET

November 22, 1963

11. 9:00 - 9:15 Chairman's Time

12. 9:15 - 10:00 Resume with Item 10

13. 10:00 - 12:00 Discussions with the Director of
Central Intelligence
Fir. John A. McCone

14. 12:00 - 12:30 South Vietnam: Activities of CIA Preceding
and Following the Overthrow of Diem.
Mr. William Colby, DD/P Staff, CIA

15. 12:30 - 1:30 Resume with Item 10

16. 1:30- 2:15 Lunch - White House Mess

17. 2:15 - 6:00 Completion of final draft of Report
to the President.

-SECRET-

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
TOP SECRET
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

SUBJECT: November 21-22, 1963, Meeting of the
President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board

November 21, 1963

The President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board convened in
Executive Session at 9:00 a.m. November 21, 1963, on the first day of a
scheduled two-day meeting, at the Board's offices, Room 297. Executive Office
Building. Present were Chairman Clifford; members Land, Gray, Langer and
Doolittle; J. Patrick Coyne, Executive Secretary; and A. R. Ash.

Chairman Clifford informed Board members that in this two-day meeting
consideration would be given to the Soviet espionage case involving the late
J. S. Army Sergeant Jack E. Dunlap, previously assigned to the National
Security Agency by the Army Security Agency. Mr. Clifford said that the
Board was in a position to do a unique service in this situation, and was
the only Government entity engaged in a detailed, full-time review of the
counterintelligence, and national security ramifications of the case.

Chairman Clifford advised Board members that some of the facts involved are
extremely sensitive and must be given extreme security. (Here Mr. Clifford
outlined to the Board the substance of highly sensitive information which
had been given orally to Mr. Coyne by FBI Director Hoover for the information
of the Board and the President with respect to a uniquely valuable intelli-
gence source which supplied information concerning the espionage activities
of Dunlap.)

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

November 22, 1963

The Board re-convened at 8:45 a.m. in executive session. Chairman
Clifford announced that General Carroll had called to emphasize that during
his remarks yesterday he did not intend to be critical of corrective
measures taken by General Blake (Director of NSA) after the Dunlap case,
rather, his criticisms were directed at the situation existing prior theretc.

Board members directed their attention to a further review of materials
relating to the Dunlap case, and to further work on the draft of the Board's
report to President Kennedy.

(Messrs. Pace and Murphy joined the meeting.)

At. 10:00 a.m. the Board meeting was joined by Mr. McCone, DCI, who
was accompanied by CIA officials Kirkpatrick and Helms.

Mr. Clifford informed the DCI that the Board would appreciate his:
comments on the subject matters which had previously been indicated as of
interest to the Board, and in any comments on other subjects which the DCI
or his associates might wish to make

Mr. McCone said that he was prepared to discuss all of the items listed
by the Chairman, plus 3 additional subjects: (1) the Soviet Space Analytical
Center (2) organizational changes in regard to CIA's scientific and technical
activities, and (3) Vietnam. He said that at noon he would have available
to the Board Mr. William Colby, CIA headquarters official assigned to Far
East matters, who had just returned from a several weeks' visit to Vietnam
at President Kennedy's request. Mr. McCone said that he himself would have
to leave the meeting at 12:20 in order to keep an appointment with
McGeorge Bundy.
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
33
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

First Mr. McCone said he wanted to refer most emphatically to the
damage being done to CIA through adverse publicity appearing in the press,
radio and TV in a campaign which, if not arrested, could well destroy the
CIA If the campaign continues, it will prevent CIA recruitment of good
men, and will discourage present CIA personnel at all levels in the organiza
tion. Mr. McCone said that there is little he ca can do to dissuade the press
from pursuing this line for ideological reasons or otherwise. There are
those in the Defense Department who have opposed CIA ever since it was
established, and there are Foreign Service Officers in the State Department
who are highly critical of the CIA

Mr. McCone urged most emphatically that the Board bring this matter
to President Kennedy's attention and to urge the President to take not one
but several occasions to try to correct the CIA's public image. For example,
CIA has been accused of being a "Third Government in South Vietnam", and
various people have been led to the erroneous conclusion that the anti-Diem
coup was engineered by CIA. One result of irresponsible charges may be that
Cambodia will swing over to the Communist camp

Mr. Clifford asked whether these criticisms are traceable back to the
Bay of Pigs as a turning point. Mr. McCone said yes, and back to CIA'3
involvement in Guatemala. The criticisms of CIA make interesting copy for
writers who know there will be no denial or defense. For some reason or
other extreme liberals in and out of Government feel that a secret intelli-
gence service is contrary to the democratic principles of our Government.
The N. Y. Times is particularly critical and Times staffer James Reston
would destroy CIA if he had his way; and the Washington Post from top to
bottom is opposed to CIA.
34
CORONA/OXCART/TAGEOARD/GAMBIT
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

Mr. Gray asked if Mr. McCone was suggesting that the President should
talk to the Secretaries of State and Defense about criticisms of CIA made
by persons in those Departments. Mr. McCone said, no, what must be done
is for the President to make the matter the subject of a major speech and
several press conferences General Doolittle inquired whether Mr. McCone
had discussed this with the President, and Mr. McCone replied that he had
and this was the reason for remarks which the President made 30 days ago
during a press conference. Mr. Murphy observed that public statements of
the kind urged by Mr. McCone often have a way of proving to be a liability,
because they may generate a whole flock of further press and radio commentaries;
and for this reason Mr. McCone might consider the prospect of having to ride
out this storm.

Dr. Land asked what is the CIA's role in Vietnam. Mr. McCone said
its role was not to overthrow governments, and there are many other reasons
why CIA is in Vietnam. Dr. Land asked what, however, should the President
publicly say about CIA's role in Vietnam. Mr. McCone said that he could
supply the President with that.

Chairman Clifford stated that the matter raised by Mr. McCone is
an area in which he would hope that the Board might be of assistance. How-
ever, Mr. Clifford did not know how much the President could do in the way
of public statements to the press. Perhaps a lot could be done within
Government to stop damaging leaks of information from the various departments
and agencies. Mr. Clifford said that the Board would address itself to the
problem. Mr. McCone agreed that leaks are a part of the problem, and here-
called that the editor of News Week told him that he obtained information
from State Department, but the editor would not name the source.
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
35
TOP SECRET

Turning to the subject of Counterintelligence which was included
on the Beard's list of items of interest, Mr. McCone asked Mr. Helras
to speak to this inatter.

Mr. Helms said that in looking at the subject of our counterintelligence
posture he preferred to refer to it as "counter-espionage". He said that it
is the most dreary and least attractive job that CLA has. When CLA goes out
for positive collection of intelligence in an espionage operation, the
objective is clear e.g., the obtaining of information about a Soviet
missile site. But counterespionage is like Blind Man's Buff where you know
someone is in the room but you aren't certain who it is. There is a passive
side of the effort, involving security checks, safes, fences, guards, etc.;
but if the counter effort is only passive, it continues to be a game of
Blind Man's Buff. Therefore, a counterespionage activity is needed for the
purpose of identifying hostile espionage agents. In this latter activity CIA
has about 5 years to go before getting to the level that is desired.

Mr. Helms pointed out that the USSR not only has an aggressive cold war
policy but it uses the instruments of the GRU and the KCB operating in
parallel with coordination taking place under, Khrushchew in Moscow where
decisions are reached as to dividing up the slots and espionage missions
between the GRU and the KGB

Next Mr. Helms exhibited a chart reflecting a number of espionage cases
which have been uncovered as a result of CIA's counterintelligence efforts:
the Able case (an illegal KGB agent who was located by the FBI in New York
after Able's subordinate defected to the CIA in Paris); Blake (of Britain's
MI-6 who worked for the Soviets for 6 years until uncovered as a result of &
Polish defection to the CIA); Philby (the old school tie MI-6 official whose
Soviet espionage recruitment dates back to 1934 and who recently fled to the
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
36
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

USSR from the Middle Past); Clemens and Felfe (who served 9 years in the
West German counterespionage service, and were uncovered through a Polish
defector's tip to CIA); Cox (a U. S. citizen who took $500 from the Soviets,
returned the money, suffered a heart attack, and the case dropped by U. S.
authorities); Ethel and Harry Houghton (uncovered through a tir from a Polish
defector); the Krugers (a U. S. couple whose real names were Cohen and who
disappeared in 1950); the Lansdale case in England; Vassalls (a homosexual
clerk in the British Admiralty); and Wennerstrom (CIA didn't give the Swede's
a direct lead to this Soviet agent, but CLIA laid out to officials of Sweden
the manner in which the Soviets would effect a penetration, and when the
Swede's surveyed their situation they found that Wennerstrom fit the prototype,
with the result that Wennerstrom confessed when confronted.) Mr. Helms also
presented another chart dealing with cases of espionage penetrations by other
Soviet bloc intelligence services including Czechs, East Germans, Poles and
Yugoslavs

Mr. Murphy asked whether CIA had concurred in the U. S. release of the
Soviet espionage agent, Able, in exchange for U-2 pilot Powers. Mr. Helms
said that considerations of national interest prevailed in that decision,
although CIA's counterintelligence officers objected to the action.

As a result of information gained through CIA's counterespionage efforts,
CIA has informed French and Israeli governments that the KGB is obtaining
information from them. The worst situation is in the French government which
has recently arrested the Soviet agent Pacques, and this action by the French
government may be an indication that they are moving against Soviet espionage
infiltrations. CIA believes in the accuracy of information it has received
from a Soviet defector that there are 10 or 12 high placed French officials
serving as Soviet agents
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
37
:DLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

DOD SECRET

Mr. Clifford asked whether this situation should cause the U. S.
to furnish less information to the foreign governments involved. Mr. Helms
said that CIA is recommending to the USIB that there be less distribution
of sensitive papers placed in the hands of foreign recipients, but that these
foreign governments be provided more counterintelligence information to
protect themselves against Soviet espionage penetrations (for example, West
Germany is crawling with hundreds of East Cerman agents).

In answer to General Doolittle's question as to motivations in these
cases, Mr. Helms said that in the Western world the primary motivations
have been desire for money, blackmail pressures, ideology, and vanity (the
agent Blake enjoyed confessing how well he had fooled his British superiors)。
In blackmail situations, the Soviets develop leads as to personality defects
and then exploit them persistently.

Mr. Clifford asked whether CIA' 8 counterintelligence program has un
covered U. S. citizens serving as Soviet agents. Mr. Helms replied that one
such instance was the case of Sergeant. Rhodes (Mr. McCone interjected that
if there had not been a mixeup in signals, Dunlap would have been turned up
as an agent. Mr. Clifford said that the Board knew about that..)

Dr. Langer asked whether the FBI is more active now in its counter
espionage coverage in the United States Mr. Helms said that FBI is at a
maximum of activity: He added that the Able case had proved something that
CIA and FBI had doubted, foe., that the USSR was operating "illegals" in the
U S. after World War II
In answer to a question as to whether new policy guidance is needed
with respect to counterespionage activities, Mr. Helms stated that CIA does
not feel that NSCID No. 5 neede revision the problems that exist are
encountered in the implementation of the directive. There is a view in the
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
38
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

TOP SECRET

Intelligence community (supported by Army and Navy, although CIA and FBI
are not keen on it) that there is a need for a Counterintelligence Committee.
The objection to this is grounded on the nature of counterintelligence work
which involves highly sensitive operations aimed at penetration of foreign
government's intelligence services, and the security of these sensitive
operations would be weakened if several agencies shared in them. Underin
present arrangements there is no duplication of counterintelligence actions
on the part of the agencies involved because of the day-to-day liaison that
is maintained among them; and, also, the CIA maintains a central counter-
Intelligence index file for use by interested agencies. In addition, the
USIB provides a place for the resolution of policy questions Therefore,
Mr. Helms said, the CIA feels that the present bureaucratic apparatus i
sufficient for its purposes. He added that one improvement that is needed
is for U. S. military agencies to make good memoranda for the record con-
cerning contacts made by U. S S. military attaches with foreign officers
( In the Wennerst Vennerstrom case it has been found that no such records ds were were mai
tarned about the many contacts with Wennerstrom during the perica in which
it is now known that he was serving as a Soviet agent).

in-
Mr. Me MeCone next addressed himself to the subject t of Cuba, in which the
Poard had expressed an interest. He said that from 15,000 to 18,000
Military personnel have been withdrawn since the missile crisis. A few
hundred have arrived during the past month, and since October there appears
to have been a rotation replace ont of Soviet personnel in Cuba. It is
believed that the USSR is ma
including military advisers,
ing a large MAAG-type" contingent in Cuba,
inicians, and personnel training the Cubans
in the operation of SAM sites ar KOMAR vessels. All missiles have been
removed from Cuba by the Soviets except cruise missiles, FROG missiles and
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
39
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

SAMS The Soviet decision to train Cubans and to relocate SAM sites
indicates an intention to turn them over to Cuban control eventually.
Further Soviet withdrawals will probably take place when Cubans become
proficient in the weapons systems So, in Cuba there is a transition from
Soviet military forces to a MAAG-type operation, with the Soviets retaining
control of only the most sophisticated weapons systems. Equipment with-
drawals have been limited to the missiles and launchers, and the replacement
of advanced SAM radars with older types of the kind supplied by the USSR
to Egypt and Indonesia.

In answer to Mr. Clifford's query about news accounts of CIA agent
operations in' Cuba, Mr. McCone said hat CIA has had a very active operation
against Cuba and the Board has been briefed on it from time to time. Although
there have been some disappointments and roll-ups of agents, CIA has vastly
improved it's agent nets and internal agent sources among legal travelers
and friendly foreign government missions in Cuba. Of the 17 agents reportedly
executed in Cuba, 7 were CIA's. One unfortunate experience was the identi-
fication of the S.S. Rex as a CIA support ship. (Mr. Helms said that the
story first came to public attention on October 21 when Cuban planes strafed
a bauxite ore vessel, thinking it was the mother ship which CIA was using.
to return an agent team from a desolate area in Western Cuba. The CIA
agent team had been in 6 weeks, had recruited additional agents, and was
scheduled to come out on October 21. The S. S Rex was lying off shore
and personnel were sent ashore in small boats to meet the agent team. The infri-
red blinker signals from shore were correctly given, although the light ights were
placed closer together than they should have been. A hailing signal was
given from a rubber boat and was acknowledged, but then machine gun fire
opened up on the small boats.) Mr. McCone stated that the cover story
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
40
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

JOD SECRET
for the S. S. Rex was a good one a hydrographic oil exploration vessel
and when the agent team was rolled up it was decided to bring the Rex back
to a Florida port as called for in the cover plan, rather than taking it
to some foreign port and thereby ruin the cover story.

Referring to the Dunlap case, Mr. Clifford said that the Board was
shocked to learn of the lack of coordination between NSA and ASA, and he
invited the DCI's comments on this in view of the Board's responsibility to
the President in this matter
Mr. McCone replied that his recommendation to the Secretary of Defense
is to overhaul the security system and to ensure that military personnel
assigned to NSA be subjected to the same kind of security screening as that
which NSA applies to its civilian personnel, 1.e., a background investigation
and polygraph examination. The DCI noted that. NSA rejects ?) per cent of the
military personnel who have been working as military assignees to NSA, when
they apply for civilian employment at NSA. Critics of Mr. McCone's proposal
say that any such new procedure would have to be applied among agencies
generally and that would present problems, but Mr. McCone feels that the
more stringent security clearance procedure should start at NSA which is the
heart of the problem, and then widen the circle to other agencies gradually.

The DCI said that he is also looking into the need-to-know by NSA with
respect to the large number of sensitive CLA documents which are used by
NSA Some 135,000 such documents were at NSA during Dunlap's employment there.
The DCI stated that CIA has not completed its damage assessment yet, and a
few weeks more would be required.

Mr. Gray asked whether the CIA investigates a military man assigned to
CIA in the event that derogatory information is developed concerning him.
Mr McCone replied that before a military assignes comes to CIA, the CIA
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
41
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
ELINT! For example in connection with aSoviet missile shot on Kamchatka
there was a suspicion that the test would include a Soviet anti-ICBM shot,
but our Alaskan radar site was not alerted, the radars were not up, and
we missed coverage of any anti-ICBM test. Mr. McCone agreed with Dr. Baker's.
observation that there is a relationship between the activities of the new
Center and the responsibilities to be assigned under the Defense ELINT Plan,
and the DCI added that there may well be resistance from some elements of
the military.

Next Mr. McCone reported to the Board on the recent. U-2 crash in the
Gulf of Mexico. The whole plane has been found in 9 fathoms of water 40
miles NW of Key West. The ejector canopy is off and the seat is out. An
empty life raft and parachute were found There was no attack made on the
aircraft. The pilot reported a successful mission over Cuba, he flew over
the Key West station on the return trip and 10 minutes later he was down.
When the wreckage is raised it should be possible to determine the cause.

Mr. McCone said that this exhausted the list of things he had in mind
to discuss at this meeting.

Mr. Clifford asked if there were any intelligence facets of the arrest
of U. S. professor Barghorn in the USSR. The DCI said that an analysis of
the professor's debriefing had not yet been completed. He had no intelligence
mission even indirectly, but was once a CIA consultant and the KGB knew that.
No doubt this Soviet move was made because they had run out of pawns to use.
in obtaining an exchange for the Soviet spy Egeroff arrested in the U. S.
As a matter of fact CIA had forecast that the Soviets would do something
like this when they ran out of people to use in exchanges, Mr. McCone said.

At 12:15 Mr. McCone brought in Mr. Colby who was in charge of the CIA
Station at Saigon for 5 years and more recently has been in charge of the
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
49
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

Far East desk at CIA headquarters. At an NSC meeting following the anti-
Diem coup in South Vietnam the President decided to send Mr. Colby to
Saigon to survey the situation as a representative of the President and of
the Secretaries of State and Defense. The Vietnam coup is the 8th that has
taken place around the world during the past year. Mr. McCone said that he
has looked back over CIA reporting on these events and found that without
exception there had been a forecast of what was to come an of the people
involved
Mr. McCone said that reports of possible coups in Vietnam had been
received for years. Up to early August it was CIA's practice to inform
the Diem government about reported coup plotting.. Then when Diem began to
resist efforts to get him to change some of his policies, CIA decided not to
report to him on coup talk which was noted in August, but CIA would watch the
situation which CIA did in detail through August and September. CIA
knew quite a lot about the General's coup plotting but not their precise
plan. General Dhin told CIA that the coup was ready. CIA maintained a radio
telephone link between the Joint General Staff and the CIA Station in Saigon,
so that the CIA contact could report developments. CIA did not have/and does
information on
not know about the assassinations of Diem and Như CIA had no part in
organizing the coup, Mr. McCone informed the Board, although some rave
accused CIA of this. Mr. McCone said he would now ask Mr. Colby to brief
the Board, noting that Mr. Colby attended the Honolulu meeting (as did
Mr. McCone) and is knowledgeable of the decisions made there. (At 12:25
Mr. McCone left the Board meeting to keep his appointment with Mr. Bundy.)

Mr. Colby began by informing the Board that CIA has for some time
been watching signs of instability in the Vietnam government, in order to
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
50
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

determine reasons for discontent and to learn of any plans to overthrow the
government. (Two earlier coups had been attempted. In November 1960
Junior paratrooper officers took part. In 1962 wo Air Force pilots bombed
the palace in the hope of killing members of the royal family.) In the
summer of 1963 CIA's policy was tied to clear and present danger to.U.S.
interests If CIA saw threats to the Diem regime, CIA would give warnings
to Diem so as not to spoil CIA's contacts with the regime. In the summer,.
the intense feelings over the Bhuddist issue were graver than any that CIA
had seen in Vietnam. There were major popular grievances against the regime.
The regime insisted it had the answers to all questions and that any
opposition was either venal or stupid. All was decided from the Palace, and
the Generals did not have much to do. The regime had a total lack of appre-
ciation of public relations both at home and internationally. While the
Bhuddist suicides by burning were taking place there were 6 or 8 potential
coup groups being formed, some of them being alliances between civilians änd
the military. The situation was crystallized with the Government raids on
pagodas, resulting in public outcry. Diem convinced his Generals that these
repressive actions were necessary to maintain the war effort, when in fact
Diem was making a political move against a Bhuddist political operation.
(Mr. Colby said there was no tie between the Bhuddists and the Vieg Cong,
although there had been some Communist penetration of the Bhuddist priests
dating back before 1954.) The anti-Diem Bhuddist movement actually began
as a concept to protect Bhuddism against Catholic supremacy. When the
Government raided the pagodas, this almost set off a coup attempt at that
time but the coup planners had not yet obtained support of sufficient troops.
Meanwhile, CIA was watching developments' carefully, Mr. Colby said. In
answer to a question from Mr. Coyne, he stated CIA funds and activities were
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

TOP SEC
not directly or indirectly involved in support of Diem forces which raided
the pagodas.

Continuing, Mr. Colby reported to the Board that in September pandced
October CIA had identified (1) a General's coup group, and (2) a coup c
group headed by junior officers and civilians, which was alleset co move i
on October 24 but could not do so for lack of needed trucks... Mr. Colby
then went on to describe the Generals' coup action which resulted in the
overthrow of the Diem government, along the lines publicly reported.

In answer to Mr. Murphy's question, Mr. Colby informed. the Board that
there were 10 executions of members of the Diem regime during the coup
action.

Looking ahead, Mr. Colby stated that as soon as the Generals have
finished removing pro-Diem officials from the Government "they will procced
to institute popular programs in an effort to solidify the support of the
people in the prosecution of the war effort (the strategic hamlet program will
probably be continued). The Generals will have to change the compartmentation
of the Vietnam military forces which Diem had established as a means of
preventing the Generals from knowledge of the overall situation. Accordingly
the new ruling Generals' group sees the need for thorough reorganization
of the military chain of command, and are attempting to form an organizational.
pattern which will be better suited to fighting the war against the Viet
Cong. The basic war concept is to clean out Cong forces in the southern
delta area and then expand military activities in the northern area.

General Doolittle asked whether there is any organized Communist
movement within South Vietnam. Mr. Colby replied that the Viet Cong guerilla
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
52
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET-

effort has penetrated into the South Vietnamese society. Viet Cong:
military units are guided by Cong Political Committees which are set up in
each Province. There is, Mr. Colby stated, a Communist Party in South
Vietnam whose main efforts are directed at "shooting at us and propagandizing
the South Vietnamese into the belief that their real enemies are the U. S.
and the present Government of the country.

In answer to Mr. Pace's question as to whether realistic looks have:
been taken of the potentials for winning the war in Vietnam, Mr. Colby sai cả
that a hard nose look is necessary. It is not yet clear whether the new
Government regime can claim the support of the people in the countryside,
The situation is in fair shape in the northern two-thirds of the country;
but is bad in the southern one third.

Mr. Coyne inquired about U. S. coordination of its some fifteen 10,
Intelligence elements in South Vietnam. Mr. Colby said that the J-2 is
coordinating military intelligence activities, CIA coordinates political
intelligence efforts, and paramilitary matters are being turned over to
U. S. Special Forces. He said that there are 200 personnel engaged in the
CIA effort in South Vietnam.

Dr. Langer asked about the recall of the CIA Station Chief in Saigon
(Richardson) Mr. Colby said that Richardson had become publicly identified..
as a close contact of the Diem regime at a time when the U. S. Government
became critical of policies of the Diem regime.

As for French Government attitudes toward the South Vietnam situation,
Mr. Colby observed that the French have considerable commercial holdings.
in the country' and a history of cultural affinity, and the French are
piqued at their loss of a "protective image".
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
53
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
Mr. Colby concluded his discussion with the Board and left the meeting
at 1:00 p.m.

In executive session, the Board had a further discussion of its report
to be made to President Kennedy on the Dunlap case. Chairman Clifford
brought Messrs. Murphy and Pace up to date on the principal matters covered
at the preceding day's session of the Board meeting with regard to the ex-
tensive review and materials which had been completed thus far by Mr. Gray
and Mr. Coyne in the Dunlap case. Mr. Clifford summed up the Board's reaction
of being aghast at the shocking looseness of security attitude at the NSA.
He referred to the many questions which had been put to the Director of NSA
at yesterday's session. Mr. Clifford observed that General Fitch had made
a very intelligent presentation, and that an exceedingly valuable session
had been had with General Carroll of DIA. Mr. Clifford said that after
lunch the Board would complete its consideration of the Dunlap report and
recommendations which the Board Panel had drafted. Arrangements had not
been made for a meeting of Board members with President Kennedy in con-
junction with this particular Board meeting because Mr. Clifford had felt
that the Board would require all the time of this 2-day meeting to complete
action on its report on a complex subject.

Chairman Clifford said that Board members should plan to convene for
half a day at the next Board meeting and then meet with the President for
an hour on the Dunlap case report. In view of the serious nature of the
counterintelligence problems involved, Mr. Clifford expressed the opinion
that the Board's report and recommendations may well constitute one of the
most important contributions which the Board has made.
CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT
54
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

TOP SECRET-

TOP SECRET
Mr. Clifford then informed Board members Murphy and Pace of the
Board's discussion yesterday assessing the degree of damage resulting
from Dunlap's ospionage activities. Recognizing the difficulty of arriving
at an assessment at this time, Mr. Clifford observed that the damage must
have been serious, and he noted that the CLA is still evaluating its practice
of sending its sensitive documents to the NSA. Mr. Clifford stated that
despite differences of opinion which may exist as to the damage done to
U. S. interests by Dunlap's espionage service for the Russians, the Board
has information which hears on the subject but which cannot be made generally
known and which the Board can pass on only to the President. (Mr. Clifford
then related to the Board the most sensitive item, consisting of information
which inad been given to Mr. Coyne by appropriate authority, for reporting
to the Board and to the President. It was agreed by Board members that the
Board must take particular pains to protect this information, and would do
so.)

At 1:35 the Board adjourned for lunch at the White House St.ff Mess.
Having heard the report of the assassinion of President Kennedy
which had just occurred at