JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 09/24/98-
Page : 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER : 206-10001-10009
RECORDS SERIES: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD AGENDA
FOR MEETINGS OF DECEMBER 6, 1962 OF THE BOARD'S CUBAN
PANEL
DATE: 12/06/62
PAGES : 10
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR DECEMBER 6, 1962 MEETING

SUMMARY OF DECEMBER 6, 1962 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98
OPENING CRITERIA : 08/01/2024
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88132
Docld:34671884 Page 1

206-10001-10009

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

NW-185
Docld 2499
NW-880021
Docld:34671884 Page 2
206-10001-10009

PRESIDENT'S PORRIGIN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MEETING OF DECEMBER 6, 1962
OF THE BOARD'S CUBAN PANEL
SECRET
Item	Timo	Subject
1.	10:00 12:10	Cuba Review of Data Assembled by Board Staff
2.	12:10	Depart for CIA Headquarters
3.	12:30	Discussions with DCI's Cuban Review Committee.
(Consisting of Messrs, McCone and Wisner,
and Generals Carroll, Blake, and Carter)
(Launch will be served in the cource of this
meeting..)
4	4:00	At approximately 4:00P.M. or whenever
the Board Panel terminates ita discussions
with the DCI'S Committed, the Panel will
return to the Executive Office Building
to continue its review of the material
referred to im item .
5	6:00	Discussions of the full Board with
Dr. Harold Brown, Director of Defenen
Research and Engineering
20
5:30
Dr. Killian will join this meeting at about 5 P.M.
Murphy
Gray
Doolittle
10.
Clifford 6 PM
Pace 6:30pm

NW 185
Docld 2499
NW 88192
DocId:34671884 Page 3

Doold 2499
NW 88192
DocId:34671884 Page 4
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
TENTATIVE AGENDA POR MEETING OF DECEMBER 7, 1962
J.tem Time Subject not takim sup
1. 9:00 - 9:30 Status of Implementetion of Prior Board
Recommendations Fr. Ash
2. 9:30 10:30 Oral Report by Board's Cuban Canel
3. 10:30- 1:00 Discussions with DCI's Cuban Task Force
(Heosis. HoCome, Carroll Kirkpatrick Helms
4. 1:00-2:00 Lunch
5, 2:00 End Executive Session
6. 2:30 2:38-38 Discussion with Dr. Charyk (Capt Seller)
15
7. Status Report on the Organization, Programs
and Plans of NRO
(Messrs. Charyk, Scoville and Carroll
joined by the DCI) Kirkpatricka
8. 4:00
Discussion of Board's Preliminary Conclusions
-and Recommendations on the Cuba Problem..
9. 5:30 Discussion of Future Board Business
SECRET

NW186
Docd2499
LIMIT DISTRIBUTION TOP SECRET
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
SUBJECT: Meeting of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board
December 6 and 7, 1962.
The Board convened on December 6, 1962, at the call of the Chairman,
Dr. Killian, for a two-day meeting at the Board's offices, Room 297, Executive
Office Building.
Beginning at 10:00 a.m., Board members Murphy, Gray, Doolittle, and Baker
reviewed materials and summary memoranda which had been assembled as the result
of a study conducted by the Board staff of information then available concerning
intelligence aspects of the Soviet military buildup in Cuba.
At 12:30 p.m. the Board Panel on Cuba (Messrs. Murphy, Gray and Doolittle),
and Messrs. Coyne and Ash, proceeded to CIA Headquarters at Langley, Virginia.
Purpose of the visit was to discuss with DCI and the members of the DCI's ad hoc
committee that committee's interim findings which had been reached thus far
in its study and preparation of a report on the actions taken by the U. S
intelligence community relating to the Soviet buildup in Cuba prior to October 14,
1962 (Details of the Board Panel's discussion with the DCI, et al., are set forth
in a separate memorandum in the Board's files.)
At 6:00 p.m. Dr. Harold Brown, Director of Defense Research and Engineering,
Department of Defense, joined the Board meeting for a discussion of some aspects
of advanced intelligence collection capabilities. Those present were Messrs.
Killian, Murphy, Gray, Doolittle, Baker, Clifford, and Pace, and Messrs. Coyne and Ash
Dr. Killian informed Dr. Brown that the Board had in mind discussing Project
OXCART with the President, and the Board anticipated that the President would have
PROJECTS:
COMINT-TALETAMOLE
Channels Only
Handle via BYEMAN
Control Sustom TOP SECRET
IDEALIST-ARGON-CORONA- OXOAR

NW 88192
Docld:34671884 Page 5

13 TOP SECRET
to maintaining coverage of activities in Cuba
Dr. Killiar. next informed the Board that he was somewhat troubled by the
position of the Board with respect to the following: (1) Mr. Bundy once told
Dr. Killian that inasmuch as a special. Cuban operation had beer. laid on with the
Attorney General involved, the MONGOOSE group would have particular jurisdiction with
respect to Cuba (2) during the height of the Cuba crisis the Boarl had not been
Included in the designated recipients of intelligence regarding strategic missiles
in Cuba, and (3) it would appear essential that the Board have an opportunity
to examine the records of the Special Group.
Mr. Gray pointed to an additional matter of concern to the Board, namely,
the view expressed by Dr. Charyk that different interpretations had resulted from
the analysis of satellite and U-2 photography of the same areas. Dr. Kiilian
agrced that this presents a most serious problem, because our Government could
induced to adout an unwarranteć attitude of disbelief regarding Soviet military
capabilities in the same way that an attitude of disbelief was engendered with
respect to the likelihood of the Soviet introduction of an offensive missile
capability into Cuba.
Mr. Gray, referring again to comments made to him by Dr. Churyk, thought
that Dr. Charyk had identified two additional problems which would seem to be of
concern to the Board, namely (1) the near shortage of photographic film which
prevailed Quring the week of October 15, and (2) the fact that when U. 3. intelligence
operations detected the presence of C-Band radar in Cuba, the U. S. was surprised
by this and had no C-Band jammers available except a laboratory model in the
possession of a Government contractor, despite the fact that we had discovered
as early as 1961 that the Soviets possessed this radar capability With respect
to the latter point, Dr. Baker affirmed the seriousness of the problem, noting
TOP SECRET
Handle Via COMMNT TALENT KEYROLE
Channels Only
Handle via BYEMAN
Control System

NW 88182
Docld:34671884 Page 6

NW-185
14 TOP SECRET
that our ELINT coverage had revealed that this radar capability was deployed in
the USSR against our SAC forces but nevertheless our B-52-s still have not
been eqr.ipped with a capability to jam this Soviet radar.
Mr. Clifford expressed the view that the Board has a peculiar and particular
responsibility to the President in assessing intelligence aspects of the Cuba
experience, particularly in the light of the earlier debacle at the Bay of Pigs
at which time the President stated privately that he could not make correct
decisions without correct intelligence, and that he could not endure another
Cuba". Therefore, Mr. Clifford recalled, the President had established this Board
and one of the reas as for doing so was to bring professionalism into the field
of U. S. foreign intelligence. Now the possibility arises that valid refugee
reports on Soviet use of Cuban caves may be disregarded. Mr. Clifford also feared
that the Administration may now have adopted the view that everything is all right
again now that the missiles and the bombers are out of Cuba. Mr. Clifford
acknowledged that no policy advisory officials like to have a check mede on the
advice they give to the President, and this is understandable, but on the other
hand the President looks to the Board to assess the intelligence aspects of the
policy advisory function. Mr. Clifford believed that CIA had made errors in not
conducting sufficient overflights, and top level Presidential advisers erred in not
proposing sufficient overflights of Cuba. And now that the Cuba crisis was
successfully met by the President, the feeling in responsible parts of Government
seems to be that things turned out all right so why bother the President.
Mr. Clifford said that he of course could not say what the President thinks about
the U. S. intelligerce job that was done regarding Cuba, but the President did
say to the recent meeting of the Business Advisory Council that the DCI had been
the only one who had called the shots on what was going on in Cuba. This prompted)
Ilandle Via COMINT TALE
VIOLE
Channels Only
NW126
Docld:34671884 Page 7
Handle via D'EMAN
Control System
TOP SECRETS

15 TOP SECRET
Mr. Clifford to observe that if the President thinks a good intelligence opération
took place, this could have dangerous implications, and therefore the Board should
push on with its thorough review of the subject no matter what attitudes of
resistance are encountered among the Government agencies involved. Dr. Killian
expressed complete agreement with these observations of Mr. Clifford
General Doolittle questioned whether the Board was certain that the President.
was not informed of the views expressed by the DCI in the cables which he dispatched
to CIA from France Dr. Killian said he did not know the answer to this, but he
was disturbed at the manner in which the DCI was making this case for himself
Mr. Murphy advised the Board that he had been told by the DCI that General Carter'
had not informed the President about the cables received from the DCI. Dr. Killian
thought that this question of whether the DCI had communicated with the President
should be pursued with the DCI when he joined the Board meeting today. General
Doolittle added that it would be appropriate to ask whether General Carter had
been instructed by the DCI to make the DCI's views known to the President
Mr. Clifford surmised that General Carter could have thought that the DCI would
have returned if he considered his views urgent
Mr. Gray was of the opinion that it was in the area of CIA's Deputy DCI/
Intelligence where the DCI's messages were ignored, and therefore it would be
well for the Board to talk to that Deputy.
Mr. Pace felt that the intelligence weaknesses apparent in the Cuba situation
indicate the presence of broader weaknesses. He thought that in highlighting the
weaknesses observed in the Cuba matter, the Board would be in a position to make
recommendations for broader improvements in the foreign intelligence effort.
Dr. Langer cautioned the Board to consider, however, that out of the thousands
of refugee reports coming in there were bound to be reports containing false, and
TOP SECRET
Handlo Via COMINT TALENT VEYHOLE Handle via DMAN
Channels Only Control System

NW. 88182
Docld:34671884 Page 8

16 TOP SECRET
misleading information. Mr. Pace observed that if that line of thinking were
pursued to its conclusion the question would arise as to why we should have a
refugee interrogation program. Mr. Pace was of the opinion, however, that the
interrogation program offered an unprecedented opportunity to obtain information
and CJA should have made the most of it. Mr. Pace recalled that the Board had
received articulate briefings on Cuba from Mr. Cline of CIA, who also reportedly
briefed Prime Minister MacMillan, the President and others, but Mr. Pace wondered
on what firm intelligence basis these briefings had been conducted. Mr. Murphy
noted that Mr. Coyne's study reflected that on August 14 Mr. Cline had issued an
order not to publish any information on missile basës unless it had been checked
out with NPIC. Dr. Killian then suggested, and Board members agreed, that an
effort should be made to have a discussion with Mr. Cline during this meeting
of the Board
Handle Via COMINT-TALENTOMOLE
Channels Only
NW 186
Docld 2499
NW 88182
DocId:34671884 Page 9
Handlo via BYLMAN
Control Syotom
TOP SECRE

33 TOP SECRET
Secretary of Defense. (Dr. Killian expressed the view that the DCI, as coordinator
of the overall U. S. intelligence effort, should certainly have the right to look
at the budget of any element of the intelligence community, and Mr. McCone said
he thought that he could work this out.) The DCI went on to say that the total
Department of Defense Budget is $3 billion whereas the CIA budget is around $400
million and the Defense budget is up over the previous $2 billion figure because
the Secretary of Defense has added the cost of the reconnaissance program. The
result is, Mr. McCone said, that the USB is unable to look at this large budget
and therefore Mr. McCone is endeavoring to discuss it with Secretary McNamara.
As for the CIA budget, Mr. McCone had thought that it could be kept at last year's
level through reorganization steps and cutting down on wasteful expenditures, and
at the same time an effort has been made to absorb salary increases within the
existing budget. The DCI said that despite hard work on the CIA budget by all CIA
elements, then there had to be added on the cost of the Cuba operations, so the
former budget of CIA is up to $425 million, exclusive of $146 million involved in
OXCART and NRO The Bureau of the Budget cut this down to $381 million by charging
the Cuba budget to the CIA's Contingency Reserve over the opposition of the DCI who
feels that the Reserve should be held intact for use in unforeseeable emergencies.
Mr. McCone said he was not sure how all this would finally be resolved with the
Bureau of the Budget.
Turning to another subject, Mr. McCone explained the MONGOOSE project in
answer to an inquiry from Mr. Clifford. The DCI said that this project developed
out of a discussion last Fall between himself, the President and the Attorney General.
The objective is to create dissensions in Cuba which will lead to revolt against
the Castro regime and to the unseating of Castro, leaving the Cubans to form a
government of their own choosing. Some $26 million of the CIA budget is allouce
Handle Via COMINT TALENT KEYHOLE
Channels Only
Handle la BYEMAN
NWF29
Docld:34671884 Page 10

34- TOP SECRET
to activities authorized by the MONGOOSE Committee (Composed of the Special Group,
plus the Attorney General and 2 or 3 other officials). MONGOOSE plans are developed
under the coordination of General Lansdale who works with State, Defense, CIA and
USIA elements for this purpose. Mr. McCone said that the first phase of the project
was an intelligence gathering effort. The second phase was to involve sabotage,
insurgency and other actions which were tentatively agreed upon at the MONGOOSE
meeting of August 10 but which then fell into limbo during the Culan crisis until
two days ago when the Executive Committee of the NSC tentatively renewed consideration
of the project. Mr. McCone said that he personally does not favor sabotage or
guerilla activity for a few months until the dust settles. The DCI said he was
disturbed over the possibility of a new confrontation by the Soviets who could take
the stand that there had been compliance with U. S. demands for removal of offensive
weapons and therefore any continuance of U. S. aerial surveillance of Cuba will be
countered by shoot-downs of our surveillance aircraft by SA-2's. Dr. Langer suggested
that the SA-2 defenses might be for the purpose of meeting an anticipated invasion of
Cuba by the U. S., but Mr. McCone thought not, pointing out that the SA-2's would
be easy to knock out if an invasion should take place.
Turning to the NRO, Mr. McCone said that the Defense Department/CIA agreement
had not worked out too well because the Director of NRO feels he should have fiscal
control over Department of Defense as well as CIA resources, through a review of
This approach, Mr. McCone
programs and the allocation of funds on a monthly basis.
stated, puts accounting and fiscal responsibility into NRO, 1.e., into the Air Force,
A in effect. Mr. McCone said that he favors more CIA control because it is necessary
for CIA moneys spent for NRO purposes have to be defended before special Congressional
Committees in a special way, and since $150 million of this CIA money is tied up in
NRO (OXCART) the DCI feels he will
I have a hard time explaining how this money got
Handle via DYEMAN
Control System
Handle Via CUMINT TALEHT EYHOLE
Channels C
TOP SECRET
NWF880321
Docld:34671884 Page 11.
