JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date : 09/24/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER: 206-10001-10012
RECORDS SERIES: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD AGENDA
FOR MEETING OF MARCH 8-9, 1963 (THE BOARD MET WITH THE
PRESIDENT ON MARCH 9, 1963)
DATE: 03/08/63
PAGES: 28
SUBJECTS : AGENDA FOR MARCH 8 AND 9, 1963 MEETING
SUMMARY OF MARCH 8 AND 9, 1963 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/14/98 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

NW 88132 [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Docld:34671887 Page 1

206-10001-10012

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
MEETING OF MARCH 8 - 9, 1963 (The Board
met with the President on March 9, 1963)

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

206-10001-10012
NW-185
Dobld:2502
NWP21
DocId:34671887 Page 2

NW 185
Docld 2502
NW881022
DocId:34671887 Page 3
CONFIDENTIAL

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MEETINGS OF MARCH 8 - 9, 1963

ITEM TIME SUBJECT

1. 10:00 - 10:30 March 8th
The Chairman's Time
2. 10:30 - 11:00 Status Report on Implementation
of Prior Board Recommendations
Mr. Russell Ash
3. 11:00 - 12:00 Discussions with the Director
of Central Intelligence
Mr. John McCone
4. 12:00 - 12:30 Intelligence Briefing on the
Current Situation in Cuba
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, DDP Staff, CIA
5. 12:30 - 1:30 Lunch
6. 1:30 - 2:30 Review of DCI's Comments on Board's
Interim Report to the President
dated December 28, 1962
7. 2:30 - End of Day Preparation of Report to the President

March 9th
8. 9:00 - 9:55 Resume Consideration of Item No. 7
9. 10:00 - 10:30 Meeting with the President
(Approx.)
10. 10:30 - END Discussion of Future Board Business

CONFIDENTIAL

NW-186
Doold 2802
NW 88132
Docld:34671887 Page 4
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
SPECIAL LIMITED DISTRIBUTION
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
TOP SECRET
March 11, 1963

SUBJECT: March 8 and 9, 1963 Meeting of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board

The Board meeting of March 8 convened at 10:00 a.m., with
the following in attendance: Messrs. Killian, Baker, Clifford,
Doolittle, Gray, Land, Langer, Ash and Coyne. (Mr. Pace was
unable to attend the two-day meeting because of absence from
the country; Mr. Murphy was unable to join the meeting until
later in the day.)

As the first order of business, in executive session, the
Chairman reported on a number of items including the following.

The Chairman advised that on the previous day Mr. Murphy
had informed Mr. Coyne that he had received a telephone call at
his offices in New York from the Director of Central Intelligence.
Mr. McCone indicated to Mr. Murphy that the President had talked
with him about the Board's final report on the Cuba situation
dated February 4; that the President had shown Mr. McCone a copy
of the report, indicating that no other distribution was being
made of the report at this time. Mr. Murphy advised that Mr. McCone
was quite emotional in discussing the Board's report, stating that
if the Board is going to insist on submitting the report, the top
five people in CIA, including Mr. McCone, would have to resign
from the Agency. Mr. Murphy pointed out to Mr. McCone that the
report had already been formally submitted to the President by the
Board. Mr. McCone then expressed to Mr. Murphy his concern and
disagreement with the references in the report to the failure of
intelligence. Mr. Murphy advised Mr. McCone that in his judgment,
and indeed he thought in the judgment of all of the Board members,
there was in fact a failure of intelligence and it was the duty of
the Board to so state in its report to the President. Mr. Murphy
expressed the view that the report was really mild. Mr. McCone
indicated that even in retrospect there were only about seven of
the thirty-five indicators listed in the report of offensive mis-
siles in Cuba which might be considered valid. Mr. Murphy reiter-
ated that Mr. McCone was quite emotional in discussing the above
matter, saying if the report stood it could lead to resignations
from DIA as well as CIA. At this point e mentioned to Mr. McCone
that he was in New York at a meeting with others and didn't like
discussing this aspect on the telephone and suggested they discuss
the matter further when they next met.
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART Handle via BYEMAN
Control System
Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels TOP SECRET

NW-8324
Docld:34671887 Page 5
TOP SECRET
- 17 -

Moving to another subject, the DCI said that he was concerned
about the prospects of a future nuclear explosion in Communist China,
and to a lesser degree he was concerneu about the prospects of such
a development in Israel. He thought that the prospects of these
developments brings up a most serious problem from the standpoint
of psychological effect upon other nations should these develop-
ments take place, although there does not seem to be anything we
can do about them.

Insofar as U-2 overflights of Communist China by Chinese
Nationalist pilots are concerned, these missions are being flown
in "Category 3" weather (instead of Category 2 weather conditions
involving a maximum of 25% cloud cover) because there is a need for
frequent missions. The DCI said that although these missions have
not produced evidence of a reactor in operation in Communist China,
there are some indications, e.g., a test area in Tibet, and the
President has been alerted to this possibility.

The DCI said that somewhat of a problem is presented in Israel.
Although we are close to the Israeli government, it appears to be
withholding information on the extent of its nuclear activities. As
in the past France is assisting Israel and the French government is
helping the Israeli government build a nuclear reactor at the pre-
sent time. In a building next to the reactor there is an installa-
tion which could be a chemical separation facility, but the Israelis
deny that this is the case. Moreover, the DCI pointed out, the
Israelis refuse to submit to international safeguards prescribed by
the international atomic energy agency. Mr. McCone stated that he
believes that the development of a nuclear weapon capability by
Israel would have most serious effects on countries of the Middle
East and, therefore, Mr. McCone is ready to repeat recommendations
which he previously made to President Eisenhower that unless Israel
Joins in the international safeguards we should take certain econ-
omic reprisals against Israel. Mr. McCone observed that our govern-
ment permits tax deductions on Israeli bonds, and we have given Israei
billions of dollars in aid. Despite this the Israelis could well be
proceeding without full knowledge on our part on an atomic energy
program which could trigger grave trouble in the Middle East.

Finally, Mr. McCone reported that CIA has concluded that our
policy on intelligence collection within the United States is wrong
and particularly as it applies to Soviet Bloc Embassies and to tele-
phone intercept coverage as well as exploitation of official Soviet
Bloc personnel in the United States. Mr. McCone stated that he was
going to propose that the CIA intensify its activities on these
matters or that the FBI be directed to intensify their activities
in these areas. He noted that basically this is an FBI responsibility
but that it is his own view that this responsibility could more
properly be carried out by the CIA. Mr. Clifford inquired as to
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART Handle via BYLIAN
Control System
Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels TOP SECRET

Doold
NW881325
Docld:34671887 Page 6
- 18 -
TOP SECRET

whether the DCI would not encounter difficulty in trying to get
this function transferred from FBI to CIA, and Mr. McCone responded
that he does not care who carries out the responsibility as long as
it is appropriately done and he added that he believes the CIA is
qualified to do it. Dr. Land observed that this activity does not
belong with the FBI; that coverage of an espionage agent is one thing
but that exploiting Soviet Bloc coverage for intelligence collection
purposes is quite another.

Mr. McCone advised that there is another dimension to this
problem which involves increasing the number of CIA intelligence
representatives in Moscow. He noted that CIA has only three em-
ployees in the Moscow Embassy. He pointed out that in Washington,
D. C. and New York City out of a total of 392 Soviet official rep-
resentatives CIA has identified 176 as intelligence officers of the
KGB and GRU, a proportion of 45%. He added that 23% of the Soviet
official representatives in London are intelligence officers and
in France the figure is 36%.

Before departing the meeting Mr. McCone displayed to the Poard
a photograph demonstrating the success of the latest infrared photog-
raphy taken of terrain from an altitude of 3500 feet.

Dr. Killian asked the DCI if the Board could have a copy of the
new draft NRO agreement, and in response to this the DCI made a
copy of the draft available later on in the day. Hefore Mr. Mc Cone
left the meeting he suggested that if the Board had any questions
regarding the terms of the draft NRO agreement it would be appropri-
ate to raise them with the Secretary of Defense or Mr. Gilpatric or
Mr. McCone himself, rather than raising such questions at working
levels at the Defense Department or the CIA. The DCI said that he
did not want to inhibit in any way the discussions that the Board
might want to have at any level at any time, and he noted that
Dr. Land was to confer with Secretary Gilpatric the following day.
(Dr. Land assured the DCI that the scheduled meeting was to be con-
fined strictly to a technical discussion.)

This concluded the DCI's meeting with the Board and he and
Mr. Kirkpatrick departed the meeting at 12:30p.m.
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
TOP SECRET
Handle via BYEMAN

981AN
- 19 -
TOP SECRET

At 12:30 p.m., Mr. Arthur Lundahl of the NPIC, and Mr. William
Tidwell joined the Board meeting. (Before beginning their presen-
tations, Mr. Lundahl answered a question from a Board member by
stating that the NPIC moved into its new quarters at the Naval Gun
Factory on January 1, 1963, and it occupies the entire facility
except for the occupancy of a part of one floor by the U. S. Geo-
logical Survey.) Mr. Tidwell proceeded to give the Board a briefing
on the internal situation in Cuba. In essence Mr. Tidwell said that
Cuba is a good example of Latin American Communism in action. The
Castro regime has established very good security, but the internal
political situation is considerably messed up in a controversy
between the Castroites and the old-line members of the Communist
Party of Cuba.

The sugar crop in Cuba is off one-third this year. The
country will have a hard time economically next year and the
Soviets will have to provide further substantial aid. Although
the rationing program is difficult to enforce in Cuba, the people
have by no means reached a starvation level. Bloc shipping carries
most of the imports into the island, and non-Bloc shipping is neg-
ligible.

Because of the efficiency of the Castro internal security
program, any significant organized revolt efforts have been pre-
vented. Fifty per cent of the refugees who were interrogated
during January thought that as of last summer there was a good
poet
chance of a successful revolution against Castro. After theters liem
Soviets reached a peak of introducing personnel and armaments
in July, only five per cent thought that a revolt could succeed.
When the Russians subsequently withdrew strategic missiles from
Cuba fifteen per cent of the refugees thought that a revolt might
succeed.

Some 1500 students from other Latin American countries have
been given guerilla warfare training in Cuba. Castro's radio prop-
aganda is urging other Latin American countries to follow the Cuban
example. In answer to a question by Dr. Killian, Mr. Tidwell sald
that the Cubans are Jamming U. S. radio broadcasts beamed at Latin
America, but Mr. Tidwell had no information to indicate that our
Government was jamming the Cuban broadcast activity. Mr. Tidwell
then summarized information on the Cuban and Soviet orders of
battle, along the lines of information contained in Current Intel-
ligence Bulletins.

Dr. Baker raised a rhetorical question as to whether the Sov-
lets were not in fact establishing in Cuba a command-and-control post
for use in the event of a military offensive against the Western Hem-
isphere, and Dr. Baker asked if it were not true that never before
IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
Handle Viand
Control System
Handle Via TALENT-KEYHOLE Channels
TOP SECRET

NW882
Docld:34671887 Page 7

This document consista ol
Nat Copies, Serios
Pa pages

NW186
Doold 2602
NW881327
Docld:34671887 Page 8
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
-TOP SECRET
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
March 14, 1963
Subject Board Meeting with the President, Marcin 9, 1963

At 10:00 A.M., on March 9, 1963, the Board met with the
President in the Cabinet Room of the White House for the
purpose of presenting the Board's report and recommendations
growing out of its completed review of the foreign intel-
ligence aspects of the Soviet military build-up in Cuba.
Those present were Messrs. Killian, Doolittle, Land, Langer,
Gray, Clifford, Baker,Murphy, and Messrs. Coyne and Ash.
Mr. McGeorge Bundy was also present.

Dr. Killian informed the President that the Board had
recommendations to present based on the Cuba episode. He
recalled to the President that the Board had submitted two
previous reports, one - an interim report dated December 28,
1962, containing recommendations of such urgency that the
Board forwarded them prior to completing its review of Cuba;
and a more comprehensive report dated February 4, 1963, in
which the Board set forth its complete findings based on a
detailed investigation of the Cuba situation from the stand-
point of foreign intelligence coverage. Dr. Killian said
that the recommendations which the Board was now presenting
should be considered in the light of the two previous reports,
particularly the report dated February 4, 1963.

Dr. Killian then presented the Board's recommendations,
reading from the written report which was forwarded to the
President under date of March 8, 1963. In reading this report
to the President, Dr. Killian directed attention to the fact
that most of the recommendations which were being presented
were an outgrowth of the Board's study of Cuba, but that two
of the recommendations dealt with major problems affecting
the over-all foreign intelligence effort.

Dr. Killian stated Fecommendations 1 thr gh 4 of the
March 8, 1963 report.

Following Dr. Killian's statement of Recommendation 4
regarding low-level aerial surveillance flights over Cuba,
the President observed that such flights had not been suspended
but were being reserved for coverage of particularly critical
intelligence targets should the situation warrant, as, for
example, the February 9, 1963 low-level mission. Mr. Bundy
TOP SECRET

NW185
NW 881328
Docld:34671887 Page 9
TOP SECRET

commented that two or three important targets in Cuba have
been identified since the February 9 low-level mission, but
the approval of low-level coverage of these new targets is
being held in abeyance pending the completion of efforts by
Attorney Donovan to obtain the release of some twenty Ameri-
cans held prisoner in Cuba, including three individuals whom
the United States is particularly desiro of returning to
this country. The President asked for elaboration on the
Board's recommendation for the development of long focal
length cameras to be used in U-2 aircraft. Dr. Land explained
that some time ago an effort was made to develop such a camera
but the earlier version was not a success, and the development
efforts were suspended because there was not an immediate
need for a camera having this particular capability, although
at the present time such a camera would be most useful in
covering such Cuban targets as caves and other installations
suspected of being used for concealment of materials and
equipment. Dr. Land thought that the cost of developing a
long focal length camera would be relatively inexpensive in
comparison to the cost of such projects as DISCOVERER.

Dr. Killian then presented Recommendations 5 through 7
of the March 8 report.

When Dr. Killian stated Recommendation 8 concerning proー
posals for and the monitoring of unique intelligence operations,
Mr. Bundy made the comment that the Special Group fully agrees
with this recommendation and has instituted procedures designed
to assure that the Special Group 13 informed regarding opera-
tional delays encountered in the course of carrying out surveil-
lance missions previously approved by the Special Group.

Dr. Killian then stated Recommendation ll of the Board's
report dated March 8.

In connection with Dr. Killian's statement of Recommenda-
tion 12 on the need for improving national intelligence
estimates, Mr. Bundy reiterated the point which the Board had
made to the effect that the present system for producing
national intelligence estimates is being run by the originators
of the system, and the present mechanism for producing such
estimates is a "founders' body." Dr. Langer said it is true
that the estimative group has a highly trained staff which has
been in existence for many years, but the Board has not yet
conducted a specific study of its operations. Dr. Killian
summarized the tenor of this recommendation of the Board by
saying that a monolithic point of view is not necessarily the
best estimate
TOP SECRET

98UMIN
NW88029
Docld:34671887 Page 10
TOP SECRET

Turning next to two recommendations of a general nature,
Dr. Killian stated Recommendations 13 and 14 of the March 8
report dealing with the subjects of scientific intelligence
resources and the effective organization and management of
the National Reconnaissance Office.

Following Dr. Killian's presentation, the President
expressed his appreciation for the Board's efforts and said
that he would follow through on the recommendations which
had been made.

Referring to the thirty-five intelligence reports con-
taining indicator-type data which were dealt with in the
Board's February 4 report, the President observed that these
indications were "pretty thin." The President observed that
first there was the Berlin Wall incident and then the Cuba
development, and in retrospect the President found it extra-
ordinary that our Government had not obtained more advance
information with respect to those situations.

The President said that we should have accomplished a
penetration of the Castro regime at a relatively high level
in the Cuban Government.

Dr. Land stated that he and Dr. Langer had been engaged
in recent discussions of Dr. Land's concern about the manner
in which our national intelligence estimates are produced.
Dr. Land thought that, under the present system, it seemed
that no meaning could be derived from particular facts or
information unless the information could be fitted into patterns
which the estimators already had in mind. The Board is there-
fore suggesting, Dr. Land said, that the CIA see if there is
not a need for trained professionals who are not only open-
minded, but whose careers are devoted to fitting intelligence
information into all possible patterns. In the Cuba situation,
Dr. Land pointed out, there was a fixed pattern in the minds
of estimators to the effect that refugee reports concerning
offensive missiles were in reality reports concerning surface-
to-air missiles and installations. Or. Land said that the
Board was not proposing a policy under which the President
would review raw intelligence reports, but the Board felt
that the estimators should form the various alternative
patterns which can be reliably derived from an analysis of
intelligence, in order that policy makers may have the benefit
of such alternatives. Dr. Langer said that on the other hand
the estimators have to act on rationality and cannot assume
that the enemy is acting on an irrational basis.
TOP SECRET

NW-883211
DocId:34671887 Page 11
TOP SECRET

The President said that looking back on the Cuba situa-
tion it is now apparent that the SAM sites were related to
the deployment of offensive missiles. The President observed
that there has not been made, to his knowledge, an analysis
of the assumption under which the Soviets operated in Cuba,
and it would be of some academic interest, at least, to know
why the Soviets did not use their SA-2's against our over-
flight operations. Dr. Land observed that if the Soviet
camouflage teams in Cuba had been up to schedule along with
the Soviet schedule for deployment of offensive missiles,
we would not have found the missiles, and it was by the grace
of God that we did find them.

Mr. Clifford, referring to earlier references to the
need for clandestine agent penetration of Cuba, said that the
Board had concluded that the absence of clandestine coverage
is attributable to a lack of imagination on the part of our
intelligence elements over a long period of years during which
we enjoyed close relations with the Cuban Government. There-
fore, Mr. Clifford said, the Board is concerned about the
adequacy of such coverage at the present time in places like
Brazil and Argentina. Mr. Murphy observed that originally the
CIA set out to use U. S. diplomatic establishments as a cover
for CIA intelligence operations only for an initial period,
but these cover arrangements became permanent. Mr. Murphy
noted that in discussion with the Board the Director of Central
Intelligence has said that it is difficult to achieve deep
cover for clandestine agent operations, and while Mr. Murphy
agrees that this task is of course difficult, he has seen no
evidence that concerted efforts have been made, for example,
to penetrate the Castro regime. Mr. Clifford recalled that
on the preceding day Mr. McCone had directed the Board's
attention to the fact that whereasombe CIA has three operatives
in Moscow, the Soviet Union has/153 Intelligence officer's in
the United States. Dr. Killian informed the President that
the Board lays great stress on the need for a real effort to
increase our clandestine agent operations.

Referring again to the reports and findings of the Board,
the President said that one problem is reflected in the instance
where the Secretary of State had recommended that a particular
U-veillance mission over Cuba be broken up into four over-
flight missions. The President said he was not suggesting that
this was not a prudent suggestion by the Secretary of State,
but that this made him conscious of the fact that there is
perhaps a lack of expertise on the part of policy makers with
respect to certain intelligence operations. The President
commented that one flight was flown over an area where the
aircraft could well have been shot down.
TOP SECRET

Doc2502
NW 88132
Docld:34671887 Page 12
TOP SECRET

The President then referred to the fact that Dr. Kiilian
was retiring as Chairman of the Board in May. The President
expressed deep appreciation for the work which Dr. Killian
has done and the valuable contribution which Dr. Killian has
made to the country. The President recalled that the Board
has conducted three post-mortems on intelligence situations,
and that these efforts of the Board have been most useful,
particularly in the case of Cuba. The President added that
he wished to express his appreciation for the effective manner
in which the Board has carried out its duties in the past.
He stated that the Board's contribution has been most valuable.
In addition to its being valuable to the President, the Roard
has also contributed in an important way through the awareness
which it has created in the intelligence community of its
continuing operations and continuing review of intelligence
activities. The President said that he was very much indebted
to all of the Board members and is hopeful that the Board will
continue its present operations for he considered them to be
invaluable.

Dr. Killian expressed his gratitude for the President's
comments, and then said that, as a footnote to the Board's
present report, the members wished to say to the President
that he has a right to expect high quality performance on the ly
part of the intelligence community, and the Board suggests
that the President see fit to emphasize to the intelligencetton
community the necessity for producing adequate information.

The President then referred to current criticisms and
inquiries which have been received from various quarters
concerning the role of the Government in the Bay of Pigs
invasion, and the President wondered whether the Board felt
that the Administration should be more responsive to such
criticisms and inquiries. Mr. Murphy commented that we
would be well advised to follow the practice of Prime Minister
Macmillan who responds to such criticism and inquiries with
a statement to the effect that we do not discuss our intel-
ligence activities in public.

Dr. Killian assured the President that members of the
Board feel that to the greatest extent possible the Adminis-
tration should refrain from making intelligence disclosures
with respect to the Bay of Pigs incident. Mr. Clifford thought
that the situation had been summed up humorously and accurately
in a recent statement by Congressman Mahon who questioned
whether the real problem was a lack of intelligence information
or, on the other hand, a lack of intelligence on the part of
self-appointed critics. The President stated that he too was
impressed with Congressman Mahon's statement and, in fact,
after the statement appeared in the press, he called Congressman
Mahon and commended him on its content.
5
TOP SECRET

NW-11860
Doold 2602
NW 88121
Docld:34671887 Page 13
TOP SECRET

The one-hour meeting with the President terminated with
the President repeating his expressions of appreciation for
the work of the Board.

A. R. Ash
6-
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
January 21, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
SUBJECT. Interim Report to the President by the
President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory
Board, dated December 28, 1962

We have set down the several paragraphs of the subject report followed
by our comments.

1. The recommendation of the Board. Great uncertainties about
present Soviet efforts in Cuba indicate the necessity of a continuing aggressive
intelligence effort to equip our policy makers with timely and adequate infor-
mation to meet the possibility of continuing Soviet confrontation in Cuba. We
must resist any tendency warda a let down in our intelligence effort against
Cuba in the wake of intelligence successes resulting from our military re-
connaissance missions over the island. In making this observation we are
mindful that in a quite different atmosphere the Central Intelligence Agency
did not mount effective clandestine intelligence collection operations in Cuba
for an eight-month period following the Bay of Pigs invasion.

Comment. We agree with the principle stated in the first sentence
of the recommendation and the need to continue an aggressive intelligence
effort against Cuba. This view was advanced by the Director of Central
Intelligence at the meeting of the Fresident's Board on December 7, 1962 and
again at the meeting of the Board on December 28. The DCI informed the
Board at these meetings that it was important that there be extensive intelli
gence operations to find out the trend of developmente in Cuba and that efforts.
to get agents into Cuba were being intensified. It should be noted, however,
that in clandestine intelligence operations the allocation of additional manpower
and funds to a task, although helpful, does not necessarily assure a corre-
sponding improvement in production or accomplishment.

Since early 1962 the CIA has increased its effort to collect intelli-
gence information on Cuba. The operations for this purpose have been
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Handle via BYEMAN Copy 4
HANDLE VIA:
CONTROL SYSTEM -TALENT-
NW 881321 KEYHOLE CHANNELS ONLY
Docld:34671887 Page 14 SC01539-63

TOP SECRET

conducted vigorously as a matter of urgency. Following the misfortune at
the Bay of Pigs, there was a decrease in the clandestine effort against Cuba.
Even so, from April 15, 1961 through December 1961 the Clandestino.
Services of CIA disseminated 608 information reports on Cuba,
of which 406 reports came from sources inside Cuba. The Contact Division/00
of CIA disseminated 1764 reports on Cuba during the period April 8 to December
1961. During the period from April 1961 through December 1961, seventeen
resident agents wore recruited in Cuba and are still active. In addition, five
resident assets, two with sub-assets, recruited prior to April 1961, were
maintained during this same eight-month period and are still active. There
were other recruitments and numerous attempts that failed.

The period of sixty days following the Bay of Pigs invasion was a
difficult one for the Agency. The Taylor Committee, composed of General
Taylor, the Attorney General, Mr. Allen Dulles, and Admiral Burke, began
its survey of the Bay of Pigs operation on April 22 and continued throughout
May and June. This Committee took much of the time and effort of precisely
those people responsible for Cuban operations, both in Miami and in Washington.
There were demands for written papers and documents, as well as personal
interviews of key people. Changes in the top echelon of the Agency, anticipated
during the summer and implemented in the fall of 1961, had their effect on
Cuban operations. While it was generally agreed and understood that cur
effort to collect information must continue, specific policy guidance was not
given to CLA and funds necessary to carry out expanded programs were not
approved by higher authority until August 4, 1961.

The newly appointed DCI, following his review of the situation in
mid-December 1961, directed that the effort against Cuba be intensified.
This led to the establishment, on March 8, 1962, of Task Force Was a
separate entity within the Agency for the purpose of mounting a maxlinum
effort, particularly in the collection of information, against Cuba. As of
March 8, 1962 the Task Force had a personnel strength in the field and at
Headquarters of 335. As of January 1, 1963, the total number of personnel
devoting full time to the efforts of the Task Force was 594. Of this 594, 147
wore from other agencies and other components of the Agency outside the
Clandestine Services. Total financial obligations during fiscal year 1962
were $17, 291, 000. Estimated obligations for fiscal year 1963 totaled
$28,200,000, but now have been scaled to $24,000,000 with the final figure
dependent upon future policy.
2
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Indle via BYEMAN
CONTROL SYSTEM
Doclo 2502
NW 88132
Docld:34671887 Page 15
HANDLE VIA:
-TALENT-
KEYHOLE CHANNELS ONLY

TOP SECRET

2. The recommendation of the Board. We recommend intensified, hard-
hitting efforts to increase our capability for obtaining significart intelligence
through clandestine collection opcrations (espionage). Despite noteworthy
intelligence results obtainable through scientific and technical means, we still
have as great a need as ever for carefully selected, hurman-resource espiomge
operations professionally executed on the basis of the soundest planning judgments
and the most competent target selection processes which the intelligence can.
munity can achieve. The Cuban experience is a case in point, for we now have
few meaningful espionage amets on the island and without such asats we have
little hope of developing the kind and degree of hard intelligence which is required
on such critical matters as: a) the plans and intentions of the Soviet Governinent
and the Castro regime for future operations within Cuba or for future operations
launched from Cuba against other Latin American countries; b) the alleged con-
cealment of offensive weapons in caves or other locations which are incapable of
being probed by technical intelligence means; and c) the actual numbers of Soviet
troops in Cuba, their precise deployments, equipments, activities and objectives.

In numerous countries our serious lack of clandestine agent resources
is compounded by heavy reliance on the use of official cover as a cloak for our
Intelligence-gathering activities abroad. Again, Cuba provides animportant
lesson. When the rupture of diplomatic relations in January 1961 forced the
recall of U. S. intelligence personnel who had been operating under diplomatic
Cover provided by the American Embassy in Havana, we did not have remaining
on the island and we still do not have adequate. deep cover, clandestine
agent networks on which to rely. Priority U. S. intelligence requirements in
Latin America and elsewhere cail for intensive efforts by the appropriate
intelligence agencies of the Government to lay the groundwork for dep-cover,
clandestine intelligence operations which are not dependent upon official cover
and which will not be affected by a breach in diplomatic relations.**

Events of the past few years suggest that drematic advances in
advanced intelligence methods such as high altitude and satellite photography
have obscured the role of human beings as collection and transmission inedia,
trained and equipped with the most sophisticated technical aids, and supported
by essential logistics and communications. We are gravely concerned about
the progressive low of our capability in the field of clandestine intelligence
operations and in our view there is a need for the preparation of new plans for
the recruiting, training and equipping of agents for comprehensive clandestine
intelligence collection, particularly in Latin America.

* The need for clandestine intelligence coverage has been emphasized previously
in reports of advisory bodies constituted by the President to review our foreign
3
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Handle via BYEMAN