AGENCY: PFIAB
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 09/24/98
Page: 1
RECORD NUMBER : 206-10001-10002
RECORDS SERIES: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : MINUTES OF MEETING OF JANUARY 30, 1964
DATE : 01/30/64
PAGES: 67
SUBJECTS : SUMMARY OF JANUARY 30, 1964 MEETING

AGENDA FOR JANUARY 30, 1964 MEETING
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98. 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS :

NW. 88132
Docld:34671877 Page 1
2025 Release under the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

206-10001-10002

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

MINUTES
OF
MEETING
OF
JANUARY 30, 1964,

Docld 2492-
NW-8321
Docld:34671877 Page 2
206-10001-10002

i
NW 185
Docld:2492
NW สร?
Docld:34671877 Page 3

-SECRET-
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MEETING OF JANUARY 30, 1964
ITEM TIME SUBJECT
1. 9:00 - 10:00 Chairman's Time
2. 10:00 - 11:00 Acting Director of Central Intelligence
Lt. General Marshall Carter
3. 11:00 - 11:30 Executive Session
4. 11:30 - 12:30 Director, National Reconnaissance Office
Under Secretary Brockway McMillan, USAF
5. 12:30 - 1:45 Executive Session
6. 1:45 - 2:30 Lunch--White House Mess
7. 2:30 - 4:00 Consideration of Report to the President
3. 4:00 - 5:00 Meeting with the President
9. 5:00 - End of Executive Session and Discussion of
Day Future Board Business.

-SECRET

Docld 2492
NW 88182
DocId:34671877 Page 4

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
January 20, 1961
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. WALTER JENKINS

Following up on the recent conversation which you
hed with Mr. Clark Clifford, Cha 1, Chairman of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, there are listed
below the names of the personnel of the Board who are
scheduled to meet with the President on January 30 at
4:00 PM

Mr. Clark Clifford Washington, D. C.
Dr. Williamo.) 10. Balter Murray Hill, N. J.
Lt. Gen. Jomers Do little Redondo Beach, Calif.
Im'. Gordon Gray Washington, D. C.
Dr. Edwin II. Lond Cambridge, Mans.
Dr. William L. Langer Cambridge, Mass.
. Robert D. Murphy New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frank Paco, Jr. New York, N.Y
Mr. J. Patrick Coyno Washington, D. C

Copies of this memorandum ara being provided to
Kenneth O'Donnell and Mr. Pierre Salinger for their
information

dor Mr. Kenneth O'Donnoll
Mr Pierre Salinger J. Patrick Саула
Executive Secretary

185
Docld 2492
NW 882
Docld:34671877 Page 5

Attached memoranda (Tabs A through H) were used
by the Chairman as the basis for an oral briefing
on the Origin of the Board at the PFIAB meeting
with President Johnson on January 30, 1964.

4
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
No. of 16 Copte, Series
ان
TOP SECRET SC 1.14.12/63
December 1, 1963
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
(3)

Origin of the Board: From 1946 to 1954 a variety of ad hoc groups
were constituted at the Presidential level to review selected aspects
of the total U.S. foreign intelligence effort.

In 1955 the Hoover Commission on Organization of the Executive
Branch of the Government recommended a permanent bi-partisan "Watch
Dog Committee" (to be composed of members of both Houses of Congress
and of public-spirited citizens) to make periodic surveys of the
organization, functions, policies and effectiveness of the foreign
intelligence activities of the several Government agencies concerned,
reporting thereon both to the Congress and the President. President
Eisenhower rejected this proposal.

In February 1956, as a tactic to forestall creation of a Watch
Dog Committee, President Eisenhower issued an Executive Order (Tab A)
establishing his own Board of Consultants on Foreign Intelligence
Activities, to maintain a continuing, independent review of all U.S.
foreign intelligence activities. President Eisenhower's Board
functioned continuously from February 1956 to January 1961. (The
membership of the Eisenhower Board is listed under Tab B.)

In January 1961, President Kennedy decided that there was a
continuing need for a Presidential advisory board on foreign intelli-
gence, but deferred temporarily the appointment of new members. In
the interim he requested that the Executive Secretary of the prior
Board remain in office and that he continue to review and report
to the President on the conduct of our foreign intelligence effort.

Mission of the Board: On May 4, 1961 following the disaster suffered
by the US, at Cuba's Bay of Pigs, the President, by Executive Order
No. 10938 (Tab (C), established the President's Foreign Intelligence
Advisory Board. This Order directs the Board (a) to conduct acon-
tinuing, independent review and assessment of all functions of the
departments and agencies having responsibilities in "the foreign
intelligence and related fields" and (b) to advise the President with
respect to the objectives and conduct of these activities, which
are required in the interest of foreign policy, national defense
and security. The phrase "related fields" pertains to highly
sensitive covert operations relating to political action, propaganda,
economic warfare, sabotage, escape and evasion, subversion against
hostile states or groups and support of indigenous and anti-communist
elements in threatened countries of the free world. These covert.
cperations are to be conducted in such manner that, if uncovered,...
the U. S. Government can plausibly disclaim responsibility for them.

Membership of the Board: President Kennedy's Executive Order
provides that "members members of the Board shall be appointed from among.
qualified persons outside the Government..." All appointment atments to
Handlo via BYEMAN
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY TOP SEORET Control Systom

NW 88182
Docld:34671877 Page 6

W 185
Page f
NW 882
Docld:34671877 Page 7

POP SECRET
the Board have been made on that basis. (The Board's membership is.
listed under Tab D.) The Board was chaired initially by Dr.
James Killian, Jr. In April 1963 when Dr. Killian resigned, President
Kennedy appointed Mr. Clark Clifford as Chairman. In appointing
Mr. Clifford, the President directed that the Board "continue to
perform the highly important function of maintaining an independent
review and assessment of the objectives and conduct of the foreign
intelligence and related activities of the departments and agencies
having responsibilities in this field." (Tab E):

Coincident with Mr. Clifford's appointment, the President
made a public announcement emphasizing that he would "continue to
look to the Board for non-partisan, objective appraisals of the
activities of our intelligence agencies in order to assure their
efficient management and maximum effectiveness." (Tab F)

Review Procedures of the Board: The Board maintains its continuing,
independent review and assessment of U.S. foreign intelligence
activities and covert action operations through the following means:

(1) Panels (composed of designated Board Members and the
Executive Secretary) which are responsible for keeping the full
Board informed with respect to significant actions, problems, gaps,
overlaps, and deficiencies, in specified areas of the overall foreign
intelligence effort.

(2) On-the-scene reviews, both in the U.S. and abroad, of
intelligence-related activities. These reviews (made by designated
Members and/or the Executive Secretary) encompass pertinent activ-
ities of the CIA, the Departments of State and Defense, the Unified
and Specified Commands, the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the
National Security Agency and the Service Cryptologic Agencies. Such
reviews have been made at the Seat of Government, elsewhere in the
Continental U.S., in Latin America, Scandanavia, Europe, Africa,
the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and the Far East.

(3) Review of periodic progress reports and special reports,
submitted to the Board by the military and civilian intelligence
agencies.

(4) Review of major Intelligence publications, produced on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or "spot" basis by the Central Intelligence
Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Department of State, and
by the U.S. intelligence community collectively. These publications
include current intelligence reports and appraisals of significant.
day-to-day developments, National Intelligence Estimates, Special
Intelligence Estimates, and the intelligence results of satellite
and aircraft reconnaissance missions.

(5) ^ Briefings on selected intelligence topics from agency
heads and other officials associated with the several U.S.
intelligence agencies.

(6) Discussions, as appropriate, with the Secretaries of
State and Defense, the Chairman, JCS, the President's Special
Handlo via. BYLMAN
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

NW:1855
Doola 2492
NW 88182
DocId:34671877 Page 8

TOP SECRET-
Assistant for National Security Affairs, the Director of Central
Intelligence, and the Heads of the several intelligence agencies.

(7) Frequent meetings of the full Board.A

Meetings of the Board: (From May 1961 through November 1963,
President Kennedy's Board held 25 separate meetings covering a
total of 39 days. These meetings included sessions with thể t
President, which provided opportunities for discussion of topics of
major significance. (President Eisenhower's Board held 18 meetings
covering a total of 39 days during its five-year tenure.).

Recommendations of the Board: During the past 2 years the Board
submitted to the President a total of 170 recommendations, summar-
ized under Tab G. (During its five year tenure the Eisenhower
Board made 42 recommendations; these are summarized under Tab H.)
A large percentage of the recommendations made by President Kennedy's
Board involved activities internal to the Department of Defense; a
lesser proportion involved activities internal to the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Department of State; a number of them
related to activities of joint interest to two or more member
agencies of the Intelligence Community. Of the 170 recommendations,
the President approved 125, disapproved 2, and temporarily deferred
final action on the remainder. Of the 125 approved recommendations,
implementing actions on 85 have been substantially tantially completed. The
remaining Presidentially-approved recommendations deal with
substantive intelligence matters warranting continued Board attention
and, possibly, the submission of further Board recommendations to
the President.

Intelligence Areas of Major Concern: These include:

(1). The ever-increasing cost, size and complexity of the
overall intelligence effort. This fiscal year the effort will
cost $3.7 billion. Its personnel strength is in excess of 149,000
(Of this number,over 131,000 are in the Department of Defense and
17,000 in CIA.) The effort is diffused throughout a number of
Government agencies including the Departments of State, Defense,
Army, Navy, Air Force; the Defense Intelligence Agency; the
National Security Agency; the Service Cryptologic Agencies; the
Unified, Specified and Component Commands; and the Central
Intelligence Agency.

(2) The acquisition on a priority basis of crucially-needed
intelligence on the long-range missile capability of the Sino-Soviet
bloc.

(3) The National Reconnaissance Program for the collection of
photographic and signals intelligence through surveillance satellites,
manned aircraft and drones (e.g. CORONA, LANYARD, GAMBIT, ARGON, U-2,
OXCART, TAGBOARD).

(4) The Signals Intelligence Program for the interception and
analysis of the governmental and military communications of f foreign
governments, and of electronics emanations associated with their
missile and space vehicle activities.
landia BYEMA
TOP SECRET
3 HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

NW:1855
Doola 2492
NW 88182
DocId:34671877 Page 8

TOP SECRET
(5) The handling and analysis of intelligence information
(received in massive amounts) as the basis for (a) the preparation
of appraisals of current intelligence indicators, and early warn-
ing data for timely consideration by the President and other.
officials, and (b) the formulation of longer-range national
intelligence estimates for use in the policy-making process.

(6), The U. S. clandestine espionage effort for the collection
of vitally-needed intelligence concerning the plans, actions and
capabilities of the Sino-Soviet bloc in areas significantly affect-
ing our national defense and security.

(7) The safeguarding of sensitive U.S. information (including
intelligence and intelligence sources and techniques) by means of
(a) positive counterespionage penetration of Soviet bloc intelli-
gence operations targeted against our Government on a world-wide
basis, (b) the security screening and security supervision of
personnel engaged in sensitive U.S. Government activities, and
(c) physical security measures for the protection of sensitive
U.S. material, installations and operations.

(8) The covert operations conducted by the CIA in political
action, propaganda and related fields with the objective of
influencing the complexion and orientation of selected foreign
governments.

(9) The budgeting and management, particularly in the
Department of Defense, of the complex programs which make up our
total foreign intelligence effort. (Over 85% of our foreign
intelligence dollar expenditures falls within the management and
control responsibility of the Secretary of Defense.)

(10) The coordination and guidance of all significant aspects
of our entire foreign intelligence effort as a means of achieving
maximum effectiveness in meeting critical intelligence needs of
our Government.

Docld 2492
Page &
NW.88192
DocId:34671877 Page 9
Hanile via BYEMAN
Control Systom
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
TOP SECRET

No.
TOP SECRET SC.111412/63
December 1, 1963 (1)

Rec. #1:
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS SUBMITTED TO
THE PRESIDENT BY THE PRESIDENT'S
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
May 1961 - November 22, 1963

Board Reports of July 2, July 18,
October 14, and October 17, 1961.

The Board made a series of 17 recommendations
calling for (1) a redefinition of the role of
the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI),
and (2) a reorganization and redirection of
the activities of the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA). These recommendations were
submitted on the basis of a Board study re-
quested by the President in anticipation of
the appointment of a new DCI which subsequently
took place on November 29, 1961. The Board
recommended as follows:

(1) That the President designate the DCI as the
Government's chief intelligence officer naving
primary responsibility for lending coordination
and guidance to the total U. S. foreign intel-
ligence effort.

(2) That the DCI consider establishing a small
staff to assist him in providing coordination
and guidance to the intelligence effort.

(3) That the DCI, although retaining over-all
responsibility for the CIA, be directed by the
President to assign to the Deputy DCI the
day-to-day operational direction of the CIA.

(4) That the DCI be housed in the Executive Office
of the President, in order to emphasizë his
role as chief intelligence officer of the
United States.

(5) That the DCI consider taking with him to the
Executive Office those CIA personnel engaged
in the preparation of national intelligence
estimates and evaluations.
TOP SECRET
HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY
Control System
NW 185
DocId:2492
NW ng
Docld:34671877 Page 10

-TOP SECRET
(6) That the DCI participate with the Bureau of the
Budget in its review of the intelligence budgets
of the various U. S. intelligence agencies.

(7) : That the DCI be responsible for (1) overseeing
the preparation of national, intelligence estimates
by the intelligence community, (2) assuring the
timely flow of intelligence to the White House,
and (3) providing intelligence briefings to the
President and other White House officials as
required.

(8) That the DCI serve as Chairman of the U. S.
Intelligence Board (USIB) and represent the
President on intelligence policy matters at
the national lével.

(9) That CIA (1) place increasing emphasis on the
acquisition of "hard" intelligence, and
(2) decrease the excessive emphasis being
placed upon covert action programs.

(10) That CIA devise means for identifying and
eliminating covert action programs of low
potential.

(11) That CIA consider the feasibility of trans-
ferring clandestine operations and covert
operations from CIA to some other agency.

(12) That, if feasible, the headquarters administra-
tion of all or portions of clandestine
activities be relocated to points outside
of Washington (e.g., to New York City, and
other appropriate points).

(1.3) That deeper cover be achieved for all clandestine
activities and covert actions.

(14) That efforts be made to reduce the visibilit
of our foreign intelligence activities
through (1) action by the DCI to reduce to
a minimum the appearances of CIA officials
before Congressional Committees, and (2) action
by officials of all intelligence agencies to
refrain from public statements concerning
substantive intelligence matters.
MAINDLE VIM CON CHANNELS ONLY
185
Docld 2492
NW 88182
40
Docld:34671877 Page 11
2
:
TOP SECRET-
Control System

NW 185
Docld 2492
NW 88182
Docld:34671877 Page 12
TOP SECRET
(15) That improvements be achieved in the quality
of CIA personnel.

(16) That consideration be given to a possible
change in the name of the CIA.

(17) That there be realignments in the organiza-
tion and staffing of the CIA, with a view to
increasing its effectiveness.
arabilicies
C
Rec. #2: That positive action on the new leadership
of CIA be taken as soon as possible.

Board Report of July 2, 1961
Rec. #3: That the Department of State and the CIA conduct
a study of the number of CIA representatives
serving overseas under official State Department
cover, with a view to an orderly reduction of
such cover positions in appropriate instances.

Rec. #4:
Rec. #5: That the U. S. Intelligence Board create the
means for assessing and reporting early warning
indications of developing cold war" crisisudgetary
situations in any part of the world (such early
warning to be handled separately from "hột war"
indications dealt with in the National Indica-
tions Center of the U. S. Intelligence Board's
Watch Committee).

That there be a strengthening of the capabilities
of the National Security Agency (NSA) in the
acquiring and processing of Communications
Intelligence and Electronics Intelligence,
through the following means: (1) new legislation
authorizing the Department of Defense to
summarily deny or revoke the employment at NSA
of any person unless such employment is found
to be consistent with national security interests;
(2) ne.. legislation exempting the NSA from
statutes and regulations governing employment in
the U. S. civil service, as required to enable
NSA to accomplish its sensitive and vital mission;
(3) a requirement for full management and budgetary
control of NSA by the Office of the Secretary of
Defense; (4) central supervision by NSA of all
3
TOP SECRET

Rec. #6:
Rec. #7:
Rec. #8:
Rec. #9:
Rec. #10:
(
Rec
#11:
NW 185
Docld 2492
NW 892
17
Docld:34671877 Page 13
TOP SECRET
collection and processing of Electronics
Intelligence (ELINT) done by military intel-
ligence elements within the Department of
Defense; (5) a realistic re-examination of
the system followed by the U. S. Intelligence
Board in levying intelligence collection re-
quirements upon the NSA; and (6) support by
the Defense Department to meet such vital needs
of NSA as ship-borne intercept stations, and
equipment for intercept coverage of submarines
and critical land areas, in order to meet
national as distinct from purely military
requirements.

That the President support the Secretary of
Defense in a reorganization of Defense Depart-
ment intelligence activities through the establish-
ment of a Defense Intelligence Agency.

(This recommendation, on the subject of possibly
changing the name of the CIA, is dealt with in
the summary of Rec. 731 (16), above).

That the President oppose: (1) the establishment
of a Joint Congressional Committee on Foreign
Intelligence; and (2) Congressional investigations
of the CIA.

That every effort be made to protect the Presi-
dent against public identification with specific
U. S. projects and programs involving (1) clan-
destine espionage activities, and (2) covert
political, propaganda, psychological, para-
military and related activities...

That the President lend his influence in
persuading Congress to reduce its demands for
testimony by officials of the CIA.

That the Departments of State and Defense, and
the CIA, be requested to report semiannually
on the status of their respective actions to
implement the 43 recommendations made on
December 15, 1961, by the Joint Study Group
on Foreign Intelligence Activities.
۱
TOP SECRET-

NW 185
Docid 2492
NW 88192
42
DocId:34671877 Page 14
TOP SECRET
Rec. 12: That the President lend his prestige (in the
period of transition involving the selection of
a new DCI, and related matters) to support and
enhance the morale of the intelligence com
munity, and to restore public confidence in
the CIA, by: (1) a Presidential statement
commending the work of those serving in our
intelligence agencies; and (2) an indication
by the President of appreciation for the
long, distinguished and pioneering work of
Allen Dulles in the foreign intelligence field.

Board Report of July 18, 1961
Rec. #13: That CIA review its plans for occupancy of the
newly-completed CIA Headquarters Building at
Langley, and consider the feasibility of housing
at some other place the administration of
CIA's clandestine activities.

Rec. #14:
Rec. #15: That the mechanism of the Special NSC 5412/2
Group be employed in such a manner as to ensure:
(1) political control of all covert actions
including paramilitary operations whether or
not assigned to the Department of Defense) with
an opportunity for the Department of State
to bring suggestions and judgments to bear on
covert action operations in the planning and
execution stages; (2) the submission for resolu-
tion by the President of matters involving
disagreement by any member of the Special
Group with respect to a proposed covert action
operation; and (3) a current review and evaluation
by the Special Group of all covert action authori-
zations then in effect, in order that the
Department of State might be fully informed of
all such authorizations.

Board Report of October 4, 1961

That the U. S). Intelligence Board make a thorough
assessment with a view to improving the collection,
coordination and analysis of intelligence con-
cerning scientific and technical capabilities
of the Soviet bloc.
1
TOP SECRET
5

NW-185
Doclo 2492
Page 14
NW 88132
Docld:34671877 Page 15

-TOP SECRET-
Rec. #16: That, because the need for intelligence on
Soviet nuclear and missile capabilities is
more urgent than the current need for geodetic
and mapping information, urgent action be
taken as follows: (1) the scheduling of as
many additional CORONA shots as possible
in, the coming months, with postponement of
ARGON shots, if necessary; (2) the THOR-CORONA
system to be relied upon as the photographic
reconnaissance "work horse" while other systems
are in the developmental stage; (3) a sufficient
number of CORONA systems be made available to
meet basic needs, either by ordering long
lead-time items beyond the present CORONA
system, or by ordering additional CORONA
systems until advanced systems are improved;
and (4) steps be taken to ensure launch pad
availability to permit future CORONA flights
for quasi-tactical objectives.

(Subsequently, based on information obtained
in the course of its continuing review of
the National Reconnaissance Program, the Board
submitted to the Special Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs a report
dated July 5, 1963, in which the Board:
(1) roted a sugnificant series of failures
which had occurred in photographic reconnaissance
satellite missions, because of malfunctions of
booster and other systems; and (2) suggested
that the President's office appropriately re-
emphasize the urgent need for achieving and
maintaining a dependable and continuing photo-
graphic reconnaissance satellite capability
lest our Government be denied vitally-needed
intelligence essential to our intelligence-
estimating and policy-formulating processes
relative to the Sino-Soviet bloc.)

Rec. #17: That the Special NSC 5412/2 Group re-evaluate
and make recommendations to the President on the
desirability and feasibility of conducting
(under special security safeguards) U-2 photo-
graphic reconnaissance missions over selected
areas of the China mainland.
۱
TOP SECRET
6

NW:186
boold 2492
NW 88182
Docld:34671877 Page 16

Rec. #18:
Rec. #19:
Rec. #20:
Rec. #21:
-TOP SECRET-
That the DCI, as Chairman of the U. S. Intel-
ligence Board, explore the feasibility of
expediting the operational readiness date
(April 1963) of the new National Photographic
Interpretation Center at the Naval Weapons
Plant.

That (1) the Defense Department, report on
the feasibility and status of two technical
projects initiated by the U. S. Air Force
to eliminate delays in the transmission of
critical Communications Intelligence and
Electronics Intelligence data to Strategic
Air Command Headquarters; and (2) the
Department of Defense comment on the adequacy
of interim remedial measures which the Board
had proposed as a tentative means of reducing
delays in the transmission of such intel-
ligence data to SAC headquarters.

That preparatory to a Board review of the
security of U. S, classified intelligence,
and intelligence sources and methods, the
DCI submit a detailed report on the imple-
mentation of the following: (1) Section 102-0-3
of the National Security Act of 1947 which
provides that the DCI shall be responsible
for protecting intelligence sources and methods
from unauthorized disclosure; and (2) Section 3
of National Security Council Directive No. 1
which prescribes methods by which the DCI,
in consultation with the U. S. Intelligence Board,
shall ensure the development of policies and
procedures for the protection of intelligence,
and intelligence sources and methods, from
unauthorized disclosure.

That at the earliest possible date action be
taken on the Board's previous recommendations
for a redefinition of the role of the DCI
and for an improved organization of CIA activities.
(See Rec. #1, above.)
7.
TOP SECRET

NW 185
Docld:2492
NW 882
Docld:34671877 Page 17

Rec. #22:
-TOP SECRET-
Board Report of October 17, 1961
1
The Board re-emphasized to the President its
convictions to the importance of outlining
to the newly-chosen DCI the objectives of
previous Board recommendations concerning
the coordinating role of the DCI. (See Rec. #1.)

Rec. #23-a: With respect to the National Reconnaissance
Office (NRO), the Board proposed that it
review, with the Defense Department and the
CIA, the contemplated organizational structure
of the NRO for purposes of clarifying its
responsibilities and increasing its effective-
ness in the coordinated management and operation.
of all satellite and overhead reconnaissance
projects.

Board Report of June 26, 1962
Rec. #23-b : With further reference to the National Recon-
naissance Office, the Board noted that the
NRO agreement between the Secretary of Defense
and the DCI was not adequate to support an
efficient NRO organization; and the Board recom-
mended further study to achieve a better
documentary basis for the NRO with particular
Reference to National Security Council directives
possibly in conflict with the NRO plan then
existing.

Board Report of March 8, 1963
Rec. #23-c: With further reference to the National Recon-
naissance Office (NRO) the Board recommended
that a recently-completed draft of a new NRC
agreement be adopted by the Secretary of Defense
and the DCI, and that in the implementation of
the NRO plan there be: (1) a clear channel of
guidance and authorization from the policy
decisions of the President to the Secretary of
Defense and to the DCI; (2) a clear and effective
connection between the advance technology and
planning of the National Reconnaissance Program
and the development of plans for reconnaissance
capabilities for the Department of Defense
and the military services; (3) plans for improved
continuity of management of the NRO, particularly
TOP SECRET
NW 185
Doold 2492
NW 882
Docld:34671877 Page 17
8

TOP SECRET-
with respect to the availability of career
specialists heavily engaged in meeting schedules
for new satellites, aircraft and other recon-
naissance instruments; (4) accion to ensure
that Department of Defense directives which
guide the National Reconnaissance Program
are consistent with pertinent directives from
higher authority, such as National Security
Council Intelligence Directives; and (5) within
the Defense Department a clarification of
present and planned retionships as botween
the NRO, the Defense Intelligence Agency
and the National Security Agency.

Board Report of October 17, 1961
Rec. #24: That the Special NSC 5412/2 Group review the
paramilitary operations being carried out by
the CIA in Laos (and elsewhere) to determine
whether those operations, given their present
scale, are properly assigned to the CIA.

Rec. #25: (Not a recommendation this was a report to
the President on the progress achieved by the
Defense Department in performance of its share
of the responsibility for the efficiency of
the Critical Communications (CRITICOMM) Network
for the quick transmittal of vital early warn-
ing and other intelligence data from oversea..
posts to headquarters in Washington.)

Rec. #26:
NW 185
Docld 2492
NW 88ซีร
47
Docld:34671877 Page 18
Board Report of January 11, 1962

Based on a review of advance intelligence con-
cerning the Berlin Wall and Syrian Coup incidents,
the Board recommended that: (1) a sense of urgency
be imparted at field and headquarters levels of
U. S. intelligence agencies, with a view to
ensuring timely reporting, dissemination and
assessment of intelligence indicating the im-
minence of crisis situations which are of potential
significance to the foreign policy and national
security interests of the United States;
(2) without imposing undue delay on the trans-
mission of raw intelligence to Washington,
9
TOP SECRET

Docld 2492
NW 88192
40
Docld:34671877 Page 19
TOP SECRET
Rec. #27: Board Report of January 20, 1962

(1) State Department officials at overseas pouts
prepare periodic appraisais of developing crisis
situations, for use at the field level and for
consideration at Washington in the preparation
of intelligence analyses and estimates;
(3) procedures of the U. S. Intelligence Board,
and its subsidiaries such as the Watch Committee,
ensure that intelligence appraisals reflect....
significant differences of view which may develop
in the intelligence estimative process; and
(4) in keeping with the DCI's responsibility for
the timely flow of intelligence to the White
House, the DCI be requested to review arrange-
ments and procedures to ensure that (a) CIA's
intelligence assessments and spot reports on
developing crisis situations are made available
for timely consideration by the President
and other officials, and (b) copies of assess-
ments and spot reports to the White House from
other agencies are furnished to the DCI for
information and for use in preparing intelligence
• estimates.
Based on an on-the-scene review. (made by
representatives of the Board) of U. S. intel-
ligence activities in Egypt, Lebanon, Iran,
Turkey, Cyprus, Greece and Israel, the Board
recommended as follows:
:
That U. S. Ambassadors be given an opportunity
to comment on the drafts of proposed National
Intelligence Estimates prepared in Washington
with respect to foreign countries to which
the Ambassadors are assigned.

(2) That Political Sections and Ambassadors at
U. S. Embassies be given an opportunity to
comment on all political intelligence at the
time it is being sent to headquarters, except
when this would unduly delay the reporting
process.

(3) That U. S. Ambassadors be made aware of the
capability and security of emergency clandestine
radio stations installed in selected U.S.
Embassies.
10
-TOP SECRET

185
DocId: 