JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: PFIAB
RECORD NUMBER : 206-10001-1000.8.
RECORDS SERIES : PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : PFIAB
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD AGENDA
FOR MEETINGS OF DECEMBER 27-28, 1962
DATE : 12/27/62
PAGES : 9
SUBJECTS: AGENDA FOR DECEMBER 27 AND 28, 1962 MEETING

SUMMARY OF DECEMBER 27 AND 28, 1962 MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98- 08/01/2024
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

Date: 09/24/98
Page : 1

2025 Release under the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992

NW 88132
Docld:34671883 Page 1
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

206-10001-10008

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992

NW 185
Docld:2498
NW1221
DocId:34671883 Page 2
10001-1000%
06-10
Des
27-28
1762

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD
AGENDA FOR MEETINGS OF DECEMBER 27-28, 1962

TOTEM TIME SUBJECT
December 27th
1. 9:00 9:30 The Chairman's Time
2. 9:30 10:00 Review of Boardla Draft Interim Repont
to the President
3. 10:00-12:45 Review of Draft Report on Intelligence
Community Activities Relating to the
Cuban Arms Buildup (Received From DCI
on December 26, 1962)
4. 12:45 Depart for Lunch
5.. 1:00 2:30 Lanch - The Hay-Adams Hotel
(Guests of Dr. Langer)
6. 2:30 3:30 Review of the World Situation
Mr. Ray Cling, Deputy Director/Antelegence
GIA (LAWLOR)
7. 3:30 End of Resume Review of Report on Cuban Armis
Day Buildup
8. 7:30 p.m. Dinner at Residenco of Mr. John Me Cone
(3025 Whitehaven Street, Northwest, D. C.)
Cirtendid My all آکر
December 25th
9. 9:00 9:30 The Chaimman's Time
10. 9:30- 1:00 Discussion of Report on the Cuban arm5
Buildup with the Following Key Intelli-
gence Community Officiais:
a. 9:30-10:30 Mr. John Mo Cone
b. 10:30-11:00 Lt. General M. Carter,
Deputy Director, CIA
117151
c. 11:00-11:30 Lt. General G. Blake,
Director, NSA
12:00 1آجی
d. 14:30-12:00 MF. Thomas Hughes, Deputy
Director, Intelligence and
1235/30 Research, Department of Stat
e. 12:00-1:00 Lt. Perierad Joseph Carroll,
Director, DIA
-CONFIDENTIAL"

Docld 2498
NW 88195
Docld:34671883 Page 3

(December 26th Continued)
2 CONFIDENTIAL
ICEM DIMS SUBJECT
11. (5)y & Som Parrett
100 -2:30 Lunch - Room 21, Executive Office Building
12. 2:30--3:30 Status of Laplomentation of Prior-Board-
Recommendations-
Mr Russel] Ach
13. 3:30 END (Resume Discussion of Report on the Cuen
Arms Buildup and Complete Preparation of
Report to the President..
COUFI NTIAL

NW 11853
Doeld 2498
NW 88192
DocId:34671883 Page 4

THE WHITE HOUSE TOP SECR
WASHINGTON This fcomment contelos information
IDEALIST, CORONA
OXCART
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
SUBJECT: Board Meeting of December 27 - 28, 1962

The Eoard convened at 9:00 a.m. on December 27. * Those
present were Dr. Killian, Chairman, Board members Langer, Murphy,
Gray, Doolittle, Pace and Clifford and Messrs. Coyne and Ash.

Dr. Killian suggested that Board members read the draft
report which had been furnished to the Board on the preceding
day by Mr. McCone, the Director of Central Intelligence, setting
forth the results of the all-source review which the Board had
requested concerning U. S. intelligence community activities with
respect to the Soviet military buildup in Cuba during the 6-months
preceding October 22, 1962. The Chairman asked that Board members
make note of any comments and questions they might wish to raise
for discussion during this two-day meeting. Dr. Killian said that
he was not sure the DCI's report had the approval of the intelli
gence community at this point, for he understood that Mr. McCone
was at that moment reviewing the draft report in Seattle, and it
was possible that some of the conclusions and factual details
might not have yet received final approval by the agencies which
contributed to the preparation of the report (CIA, DIA, State and
NSA). Accordingly, the Chaimman noted the importance of the
discussions which the Board would have on the following day with
heads of the intelligence agencies. The Chairman also thought
that the Board should alm for the preparation of a Board report
to the President at the close of this 2-day meeting.

Dr. Killian said that he had very recently talked to Mr.
McGeorge Bundy who hopes that the Board will take the time it needs
to produce a solid report on the handling given by U. S. intelli-
gence agencies to the Soviet military buildup in Cuba. Mr. Bundy
assured that the President will understand that the Board is going
into the subject deeply and objectively. About 10 days ago, the
Chairman related, he had received a telephone call from Mr. Bundy
who said that he had seen an early draft of the DCI's report (from
a confidential source) and was concerned because the report did not
get to the basic issues, and Mr. Bundy expressed an intention to
talk to Mr. McCone about this. Dr. Killian stated that he had an
appointment to see Mr. Bundy later in the morning at which time he
would ask Mr. Bundy to meet with the Board during the course of
this meeting
Board members Baker and Land were unable to attend.
Handle Via COMINT-TALENT-KEYHOLE Handle via BYEMAN TOP SECO
Channels Only Control System

NW 88192
Docld:34671883 Page 5

TOP SECRET
24-day stay in Cuba, and our Government is ec is equally in the dark
about Soviet and Cuban plans for further activities "involving
other countries in this Hemisphere. Also we are lacking intel
ligence on Cuba/Communist China discussions. Mr. Murphy reiterated
his concern that our lack of information on such matters as these
indicates the absence of an adequate intelligence capability to
keep our Government informed about developments in Cuba at the pre-
sent time and in the future.

Dr. Killian at this point reported to the Board on the con-
versation which he had just had with Mr. Bundy. According to
Mr. Bundy, the President is fully aware that the Board is con-
ducting its review of the Cuba situation. The President wants
an objective report from a group of citizens who have no axe to
grind, and he is placing great store on this effort of the Board
The Chairman said that Mr. Bundy was obviously concerned about
the prospect that the Congress will make inquiries into the Cuba
matter. However, Mr. Bundy feels there is a bare possibility that
Congressional investigators will be more hesitant to raise hypo
thetical questions if they learn of the existence of a study having
been made by a group such as the Board. It is Mr. Bundy's hope
that the Board will carefully consider the preparation of a sani-
tized version of the report, but if the Board and the President feel
that this cannot be done then the Board should try to prepare a
report which could be used in executive session of a Committee of
the Congress.

Dr. Killian went on to report other matters which had been
covered in his discussion with Mr. Bundy. He said that Mr. Bundy
had expressed concern Cover the failure of the 'DCI to accept the
suggestion that there be submitted a more adequate report than the
one which the DCI forwarded to the Board on December 26. Mr. Bundy
noted in this connection that the DCI's report assigns to policy
makers prime responsibility for any failures with respect to
intelligence handling.

On the question of availability of Special Group records for
purposes of the Board's study, Mr. Bundy informed the Chairman
that certainly the Board should examine such records and that
they could be obtained from Mr. Parrott (Mr. (Mr. Bundy commented thatv
the Board is the only group which can have this kind of access)
Handle Via COMINT - TALFIIT-KEYHOLE Handle via BYEMAN TOP SECRET
Channels C

NW 185
Docid 2498
NW 88192
Docld:34671883 Page 6

TOP SECRET
As to the Board's study, Mr. Bundy told Dr. Killian that
the Board should include in its review discushions with the
Sccretaries of State and Defense and the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff -- Mr. Bundy indicating thát the Secretary of
Defense has particular reservationg about the DOI'S report

Another matter montioned by mr. Bundy was his belief that
the moralc of the intelligence.community as a whole stands to
suffer in the absence of a carefully done review and report
nhiên là boảng cxpected from the Board.
)
With regard to the interim report which the Boord has under
way, Kr, Bundy informed the Chairman that the report could be
delivered to him or it could be presented to the president directly
and Mr. Manndy thought it important that the Boatni present it to
the President in porsón. One, other matter discussed was the Board's
concern about any intelligence let-down in the wake of the Cuba
cribis, it being jr. Bundy'o belief that no such let-doom is in
prospect if prosont directives, and discussiono on-time getoject have
any effect in Government.

(Ac thỏ conclusion of the Cugiriman là coebunt of his discussion
with ur. Bundy, the Board recconed for limon.)
on vacation
و
At 2:30 pm. the Board was briefed on the world situation by
Mr.Thomas Lawlor, , senior intelligence officer in CIA 's office of
Current Intelligence (Mr. Ray Clino, Donuty DCI/Intelligence ves
leave and not available to be present at this Board
meoting). Hr. Lawlor explained thất hío own responsibilities ing
cluded the handling of current intelligence matters, the selontion.
and write-up of current "intelligonce items (e.g., in the CIB and in
memoranda for the White House), and the preparation of internal in-
telligence notes for une at the CIA working level. Mr., Lawlor
pointed out that his duties were in the areas of analysis and
production, not the collection, of intelligence. His briefing of
the Board Included the following subject matters :

USSR/Cht.com.relations: Recriminations betieon the USSR and
Communist Chinh are the greatest in the history of their dispute,
and an open, break in party relations is most likely near.

USSR/Cuba: The". USSR is presently reappraising its foreign.
policy positions in the light of the Cuba crisis aftemaath.

USSB/Berlint The USSR 1ocata diplomatic standstillin Berling
and this is traceable to the USSR/Chicom rift.
Handle Via COMINT - ¡ALENT - KEYHOLE Handle via DYEMAN TOP SECRET
Channels Only Control

NW 185
Docld:2498
NW 88192
Docld:34671883 Page 7

20
TOP SECRET
The Chairman asked the DCI whether the MONGOOSE activity
presented any particular intelligence problem in the Cuba
situation. Mr. McCone said that it had not. He said that
in the MONGOOSE activity, the Spécial Group and the Attorney
General had given a great deal of consideration to the need.
for intelligence collection with respect to Cuba, but the
Intelligence needed was primarily for covert action rather
than other purposes. lievertheless, the HONGOOSE activity
contributed to the lover-all intelligence collection effort
on Cuba. Hr. Mocone recalled that there was a hiatus in the
collection of intelligence on Cuba, after the Bay of Pigs in-
Vaston, and when he took office in November 1961 Hr. McConc
was surprised to learn that no interrogation of Cuban rofugees
was, aking place. Thereafter, following discussions with
the President and the Attorney General they got the refugee
interrogations under way.

Hr. Murphy wondered why there had been a let-down.in
Mr.
intelligence gathering after the Bay of Pigs incident.
MeGone Said that this took place before his time, but he
assumed that the reasonn hnd to do with discounagement and
other psychological factors: In response to Dr. Killian's
Question as to whether another intelligence let-down was in
store in the wake of the Cuba crisis, Mr. McCone said that
there was in fact a great danger of such a development following
what some officials consider was an "intelligence victory"
for the United States. Mr. McCone, noting that the Soviet
SA-2's remain in Cuba, said he had brought this up forcefully
a week ago at an HSC Exécutive Committee meeting, and thẻ
Fresident had agreed to get word to the USSR that any inter-
Teronce with our aerial reconnaissmce of Cuba would be
considered as being mout grave and Messrs. HoCloy and
Stevenson have passed this word to Kuznetsον.
adđều thẹn while low-level reconnaissance flights have beep
suspended, should any ominous develo development occur it will be
necessary to obtain Presidential approval of the resumption
of low-level/flights
Fir..HcCong

Mr. Pace inquired as to whether there were any prohibitions
on thở conduct of intelligence operations with regard to Cuba.
Mr. McCone said yes,witis(desired to follow a more aggressive
pattern of agent infiltration into Cuba. ile would like to see
là 3 or 4 month effort directed toward the obtaining of straight
intelligence on Cuba(in lieu of political warfare, for example).
to determine the trend of Soviet plans in Cuba. The DCI noted
that the Soviets may quietly get out of Cuba, or they may in
Handle Via COMINT - TALENT - KEYHOLE Handle via BYEMAN TOP SECRET
Channels Only trol System

NW 185
Docid: 2498
NW 88182
Docld:34671883 Page 8

GE
21
TOP SECRET
fact take one step back and two steps, forward, and hold on to
the Cuba real estate as a propaganda and insurgency base,
as a means of keeping Castro Tunder control, or in order to
retain a capability for quick restoration of a Soviet offensive
capability. The kind of concerted intelligence action which
the DCI had in mind would include (1) penetration of the Castro
government regime, (2) the placement of additional agent teams
in Cuba, (3) the continuation of efforts to obtain the assistance
of British, French and German representatives in Cuba, (4) the
possible obtaining of useful intelligence from the attorney,
Donovan, who is negotiating prisoner releases, and (5) possibly
the obtaining of useful information from the captain of the
"African Pilot" who had a 3-hour talk with Castro and who
yesterday asked to see a U. S. intelligence officer.

Mr. Pace asked whether Mr. McCone would favor the use of
Guantanamo Naval Base as a base for launching intelligence and
related oporations against Cuba. Mr.MeCone said that he would
not be in favor of this because if we were caught using Guantanamo.
for intelligence operations Castro would obtain UN and other support
for Cuba's demands for. U. S. evacuation of the Naval Base.

Answering General Doolittle's' question, the DCI stated that.
U-2 overflights of Cuba were going at the rate of two a day, re-
sulting in coverage of all targets once a week and in coverage of
some important targets (e.g., harbors) more often. Mr. Mc Cone said
that COMOR and USIB list the targets and that he then establishes.
flight schedules.

Going back to the subject of Guantanamo, Mr. Pace asked whether
the DCI had made a study of the expected intelligence return that
would be obtained if intelligence operations were conducted from
the Base Mr. Pace adding that he thought such a study should be
made before a final policy decision was reached. Mr. McCone said.
that he had not made such a study. He added that in August the
"operators" in CIA had proposed to the MONGOOSE Group that Guan-
tanamo Base be so used, but this was opposed at the policy level.
Mr. Me Cone said that he would not be opposed to a restudy of the
proposal at this time. In answer to Dr. Killian's inquiry, Mr.
MeCone confirmed that we are conducting SIGINT Operations at
Guantanamo, and Mr. Kirkpatrick noted that NSA had only recently
added two more positions there.
Handle Via COMINT TALENT-KEYHOLE Handle via DYEMAN TOP SECRET
Channels Only Control System

NW 185
Docld:2498
NVp228
DocId:34671883 Page 9

TOP SECRET
22
Mr. Hurphy asked the DCI to state the meaning of "MONGOOSE
BPLUS". Mr. McCone explained that in the MONGOOSE Group it
was originally conceived that Phase I would be one of gathering
intelligence on the possibilities for the organization and supply:
of résistance groups within Cuba, but this effort was only Tainly
successful" because Castro has some 100,000 informers in place in
Cuba and exercises internal security controls through a system of
ration cards, and therefore, CIA did not get as many teams into
Ouba es had been hoped. On August 10, Phase II was reached with-
MONGOOSE planning for (a) violent actions (b) a relatively high
level of actions, or "B PLUS", and lesser actions, or "B MINUS"
Mr. McCone said that he had not been prepared to endorse proposed
"B: PLUS" actions in the absence of plans for military backing,
because of his own speculation that the U.S. would be faced with
MEBMA in Cuba. In any case, the MONGOOSE offort became divertel
by considerations of Soviet activities in Cuba, Mr. MeConestated.

In answer to a question from Mr. Murphy as to who chairs the
MONGOOSE Group at this time, Mr. McCony said that he did not know
Whether Hr. Bundy or the Attorney General was now serving as
Chairman.

With roference to the absence of photographic evidence of Soviet
offensive missile deployment prior to October 14 photography, Mu.
Mì Công said that if one looks at photography hotography of Cuba obtained on
Sentonber 5 it is possible to spot oyidendo of activity at the st
Cristobal HREM site, but this activity cou have been that of
agricultural workers and the evidence did not then point to missile
activity. Dr. Killian noted the Board's concorn that Soviet camer
Hr. Mocone expressed his
ouflage operations may be deceiving us.
own great concern that the Soviets are deceiving us by camouflage
methods. Acknowledging that our intelligence estimates leave a
certain margin for error, Hr. McConé noted that it is nevertheless
impossible for us to say that we know all that is going on in the.
USSR with respect to missile activity. In response to Dri-Killian's
comment that public discussions seem to indicate that U. S. missile
capabilities are superior to those of the USSR, the DCI considered.
that any such conclusion is erroneous and dangerous and could lead
to a complacency which might well result in curtailment of the U. s.
missile program by an economy-minded Congress. Mr. McCone added
that in his presentations to select Committees of the Congress he
always expresses reservations concerning U. S. missile superiority.

Dr. Killian wondered whether the President, the Secretary of
Defense, and the Congress understand the danger of conclusions that
"nothing is there because it can't be seen". Mr. MoCone said that
undoubtedly there is a tendency toward heavy dependence upon photo-
graphic intelligencc.
Handie Via COMINT - TALENT - KEYHOLE Handle via BILAN TOP SECRET
Control System

NW 185
Docld:2498
NW 88192
Docld:34671883 Page 10
