104-10175-10114 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH 14-3
Malon, Lexas City
Chari
Eastern Her Division
62
CeraMesJACETONE-1
16-3
Reference: MEXICO СІТУ 23232

1. accordance with a policy decision to keep EKHERALO contact with U.S. business representatives discreet, a small luncheon was held
in lieu of the customary formal briefings in the Headquarters building
32 . IDENTITY, David C. INGIBY and Foyd N. ALMONET
attend the luncheon which was characterized by cordiality and candor.
KDACIONET until the conclusion of the meeting to raise tune
current favorite suspect, that of countering the leftist propaganda
contained in SEMPFE. Fortunately, HIGBY was forewarned and
effectively turned and the thrust of that effort upon ACETONE-IB
shoulders, without offending him. IDENTITY imprseed INGBY with
hle interest, intelligence and sincerity. He offered his services of
in this" on our behalf bit was convinced by HIGBY
that the best way to approach the problem was through
UBS Aidual metacra, rather than through IDENTITY 2 as an
organisation.

3. Discussions were held concerning Mexican affairs as well as
Hemispheric trends. In the former category, our guests were most
Anxious about the nationalization process in Mexico and enumerated
(continued)

Attachment:
IDENTITIES (USC)

Distribution:
3005, Mexico City (W/Att. USC)
27, 16-3

CROSS REFERENCE

District:
1-W CHIUNO
1-20030999
53
23

DISPATCH STRIOL AND BRANK

22.
HMMW-19453
SECRET

Ад
1

23
201-030988

CLOSURE DATE
63
De WH. Raymanak
ELT
373
DISPATCH

9354

/p

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
ТНОС ЛАМР
HMMW-19453
22
the latest cases with some alarm. KDACETONE-1 reported his prediction
that President ECHEVERFIZA would selectively nationalis more private
Investment in Mexico before the end of his term.

3. The meeting was judged effective and afforded INGIBY the
opportunity to lay the ground work for his future relations with
IDENTITY members, while antistying the guests' need for reassurances
that our goals were parallel. They appeared happy with the conversations
Guapito use Luformality.

Floyd K. ALMONT

2rs

FOAMI
538

SECRET

22
UNDER EPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: HMMW-10453

06, 08
IDENTITY #1 - George Blake, V.P. dfAmerican Chamber of
Commerce

29
IDENTITY 62 American Chamber of Commerce Mexico Mexico

SECRET

3/8
