14-00000
104-10220-10069
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWLD AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENDERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:  POSADA, LUIS CLEALELTE
C-300985
Vol. I

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1/1/74
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/oa

ROOM: 

DELETIONS, IF ANY: DEGREE OF SECURITY MATERIAL
DATE  DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVAD FROR THIS FILE

14-00000
171 MPO 2:76 
029
FABIC SEC DISSE BY
1
11430UNIT NO FILO
AF FILE VR
ADVANCE COP SUPS/LOTTED
ALTION UNI?
LAS
ACTION
240

SECRET
IPLAN, C14, clops,
PS/E62, 656, 056/00

7 29 96 44 ΕΙ Α6 93 PAGE 01-01 IN 06 78 46
TOR:1322202 OCT 76 CARA 31115
SECRET 1322162 OCT 76 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 31115
TOI PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
WN INTEL AKULE

REPRODUCTION OY OTHER THAY 
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAF PRECEDENGE
1. FYI, STATION HAS RECEIVED REPORTS FROM SEVERAL SOURCES
WHICH INDICATE ALMOST CERTAINLY THAT WKSCARLET-3 WAS ARRESTED BY
DISIP 12 OCTOBER AND IS BEING DETAINED UNDER SUSPICION OF
INVOLVEMENT IN THE 6 OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT NEAR
BARBADOS, ALSO, THAT WK SCARLET 3'S OFFICE WAS RAIDED AND ALL
FILES CONFISCATED MORNING 13 OCTOBER.
2, FILE! 201-2300985, E2 IMPDET.

.. SECRET :

14-00000

Office of Security
Polygraph Results, 29 June 1973.
Subject: 211. 300985

14-00000
PHILIP SHARE
/3/ 1575
5.1973
CICLE SI COLTATHAT DIGHAMINAΓΙΟΝ
じいげ
WHE
FIR
TNFワ
MEGANE FOEM
TUTAL
SECRET
RT AND INDIA INDY
INCEA
300785
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
DRANCH
FILE IN CA FILE NO.
PILE. VI. 1/ CUR/EL
FILLK HID
pkol
1
SECRET
To FPRIORITY CARACAS INFO ROME.
UKRALLY WKSCARLET
52373 21 72 CITE DIRECTOR 367030
REF: CARACAS 21092 |IN 8236471*

1. AFTER CAREFUL RECONSIDERATION, BELIEVE IN VIEW CONSIDERABLE
FLAP POTENTIAL THAT WKSCARLET-3 SHOULD NOT DE MET IN ROME.

REALIZE THAT HE COULD PRODUCE SOME INTERESTING INTEL FROM THIS

OP BUT DO NOT FEEL IN THIS INSTANCE THAT AREPORTING WORTH RISK
INVOLVED.
2. SUGGEST YOU TELL UKSÇARLET-3 CONTACT CANCELLED BECAUSE
ROME CASE OFFICER EUCRU CICE WHO WOULD HAVE NET HIM EXPECTS Bε
OUT OF TOUN AT TIME OF WKSCARLET J'S VISIT AND NO OTHER APPROPRIUATE
CONTACT AVAILABLE.
3. FILE 201-300945 75-2-16/3. ER INPDET A
*REPORTED ON WKSCARLET-3 TRIP TO ROME TO BUG COLONBIAN DELEGATION TO
COLOMBIAN-VENEZUELAN BORDER TALKS.
E/LAR PEAKE (TELECOORD

THEODORE G. SHACKLE
C/UHD
RELEASING OFFICER
RICHARD L. CONOLLY
C/WH/3
COCIOLOMATING OFFICERS
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REÇUEST

TO: IP/201 Section Room GA-20 Tube Address: Di
OFFICE DE
(CSN 5-30)
MUBN
FRCH: Nancy L Davis
1.* 2. OPEN 201
ROOM 3R 2627
DATE 25 Sopt 72
4522
BS-4

TYPE OF FILE CONTROL
TYPE OF ACTION

ΑΜΕΝΟ 20
ADD CRYPTONYM
CANCEL CRYPTONYM

4. TRUE NAME
(LAST.)
SUPERSEDED CRYPTONYM CIFENCE/4

NEW CRYPTONYMWKSCARLET/3
B. 201 NUMDER
८300985
8. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (For Type. Use A For Alles, V for Variant or AKA. M For Maiden)
TYPE 1.
(LAST.) (Firat)
SEX DATE OF BIRTH,
IF CIRCA CHECK BOX
9. COUNTRY AND CITY/TOON PROVINCE OF BIRTH
DAY
MONTH
YEAR
10. CITIZENSHIP 11. OCCUPATION
14. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATIONIS) OR TARGET ORGANIZATION(S) 13. 01 Corrist 14. ACTION DCSK
15. COUNTRY OF LOCATION 15. INTEREST DLSK
VENE VENE
17. CITE FILLO ADUSESSEES TO RECEIVE INDEX CARDS
VENE
18. DOCUMENT SYMBOL,
20. SUMMARY TEAT FOR
INDEX RECORDS.
NUMBER
DATE
18. COUNTRY, STATE, CITY/TOWN OF LOCATION

21. SIGNATURE OF AFOCESTER
Mancy L. Dievin
FORM
5-72
831
F2
SECRET

22. 201 NUMBER
0300985
WARNING - SISAM

14-00000

SECRET

No.
:
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, 11/3/Vy in
Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of
for the purpose specified in your request
dated Da follhds:
milatezni penetretion of CRASH,

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CST and CS1-F 10-2
Lee Portan
οι θεάηθοπλαFTMOANT SUPPORT DIVISION
CL
Date:
1044
1-07 124
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

FILE NO. 300955
NOTICE TO: DIVISION PERSONNEL REVIEWING THIS FILE

Please complete the following steps:
1. NAME OF REVIEWER (please print) NANSY L DAVIS

2. OFFICE DESIGNATION OF REVIEWER: WH/3/v

3. DATE OF REVIEW 10 JULY 22

4. Do you contemplate dissemination of information reviewed: NO

to field

to another US Government Agency (if so, to whom)

The dissemination of any Office of Security investigative information,
including FBI reports, wust be coordinated with CI/OA and the Office
of Security.
5. Comments:

FORM
6-70
3230
DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/OA
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
CATE
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
10: 201 NO.
FROM: CHIEF, CHHA SUBJECTI
i
IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT 15 REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRO 1 RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
PRO 11 U.S. COMINT TRACES
PIFLO TRACES NEVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT-CI/DA
NI TRACES (Incl. COMINT) REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES (Inel. COMINT) OTHERS (See Romarks)
NOTICEI FIRST SECOND THIND AND FINAL
REMARKS

FORM 7-71 889 SECRET

14-00000
Office of Security Investigative Report
26 April 1972
Subject: 319235

14-00000

SECRET
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK
TO: Deputy Director Security, 106 DATE 19 January 1972 JR
FROM: Chier, C1/Operations) Approval
and Support Divisio
PROJECT A
SUBJECT: 201 300985 SO 319235 Venezuela

FRI CHECK RESULTS AV
TYPE OF REQUEST Ang
tophing since 16-Ang: 1967 (DATO)
xx USE OF SUBJECT
Informant
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Limitatione on Investigation, cover protest, etc.)

IP
NDI DIVISION (Include comint) FIELD CAS/ISG
ATTACHMENTS NDI NDI NR
REMARKS
SO# 319235,
T/N: POSADA Carriles, Luis Clessate
DPOB: 15 February 1928, Cienfuegos, Cuba
C CHIRP, CIDA
ENDORSEMENT
TO: Chief, CI/OA
FROM: Deputy Director Security, 100 DATE 2012.

1. 05 faiices reviita: 05# 31923.5 - No info sine "/1

32. Checks were conducted at the inifcates Agencies with negative results:
FRI ONL ACHT STATE FP CEC HCUA CSI I&
REMARKS
3. Checks were conducted at the following Agency(ies) with positive results,
reports attachei
CT
4. Domestic Field Investigation has been completed, 1 reports attached.
5. Domestic Fieli -nvestigation ravorable, resorts will follow within 60 jeys.
USE PALIOUS 20 cl Ta
FORM
11-71
693
KOITIONS
DEPUTY DIRECTOY SECURITY, 105
SECRET
1
