104-10121-10366 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form) DATE 7 October 1959
TO: CI/Operational Approval and Support Division FROM: NE/2/Jordan
1205 I x3203
X Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu PROJECT
(True name)
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES CI/OA FILE NO.
RI 201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL COVERT NAME CHECK
☑ COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
U.S. and Jordan
FULL DETAILS OF USE
May be employed by the King of Jordan to handle Jordanian public relations
in the U. S.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER
IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM? X YES NO
IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? x YES NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION
Per discussion with Mr. J. O'Connell, sufficient Security Office investigation
has already taken place.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS Available at OS
PRQ 1. OR EQUIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED PRQ II WILL BE FORWARDED
PRQ 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO:

FIELD TRACES
NO RECORD NO INFORMATION OF VALUE
DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED, WITH EVALUATION x NOT INITIATED (Explanation) has not been in
WILL BE FORWARDED area

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)
NO RECORD X NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY

DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)
NO RECORD RECORD X NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF
James E. Burkart 3203 William R. Freeman

SECRET