104-10112-10148 - 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

4 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Personnel Security Division
CONEIN, LUCIEN

SUBJECT:	Reassignment

1. It is requested that clearance be granted
for the reassignment of BACH, ZRJEWEL
Career Agent, to Caracas, Venezuela under AID cover.

2. security clearance number is
5025.

3. It is planned that will depart
Headquarters during June, 1965.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

Date: 7/12/81
Security Approval has been granted for
the use by his request.
Chief, Personnel Security Division

SECRET

***

SECRET
REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE
SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO : Central Cover Staff
THROUGH: Office of Security
SUBJECT:	CORREN, Lucien E.
(True Name)
DATE 23 JUL 68 A

ENTRY Inclusion of Subject on the Domestic Cover list is requested as noted
below: When notified that cover has been established, Subject will be
specifically authorized and instructed to conceal his Agency affiliation.

CHANGE Subject is currently included on the Domestic list. For the reason
noted below, it is requested that:

This employee be removed from the Domestic Cover list?
The following change be made

military cover. He was temporarily scheduled for duty

TYPE COVER
NON-OFFICIAL OFFICIAL ASST. OTHER GOVT. AGENCY
USE OF COVER ALL PURPOSE OPERATIONAL ONLY

REQUEST ING OFFICE

STAFF OR DIVISION SIGNATURE AND TITLE

CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL
SIGNATURE
DATE
SIGNATURE
DATE
Security Officer
OFFICE OF SECURITY APPROVAL
OFFICE OF SECURITY

FORM 1322 SECRET
EDITION
