14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
(when Filled in)

1

40-101
STANDARD FORM 61
REVISEP JULY 1949
U. B. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
FPM CHAPTER 8:10
APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

IMPORTANT. Before swearing to these appointment affidavits, you should read and understand
the attached information for appointee
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
(Department or agency) (Bureau or division) (Place of employment)
FLORES, DANIEL
do solemnly swear (or affirm) that--
I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and faithfully discharge the
duties of the office on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.
B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION
I am not a Communist or Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I knowingly a member of any
organization that advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of the Government of the
United States, or which seeks by force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the
Constitution of the United States. I do further swear (or affirm) that I will not so advocate,
nor will I knowingly become a member of such organization during the period that I am an em-
ployee of the Federal Government or any agency thereof.
C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any
agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United
States or any agency thereof. I do not and will not assert the right to strike against the Govern-
ment of the United States or any agency thereof while an employee of the Government of the
United States or any agency thereof. I do further swear (or affirm) that I am not knowingly a
member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the
Government of the United States or any agency thereof and I will not, while an employee of the
Government of the United States or any agency thereof, knowingly become a member of such an
organization.
D. AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE
I have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any con-
sideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing such appointment.
E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

The answers given in the Declaration of Appointee on the reverse of this form are true and
correct.

11 March 1962
Daniel Jhorns
(Date of entrance on duty) (signature of appeint)
Subscribed and sworn before me this 12th day of Farch 1962
at Washington,
Shirley. Lewis
(City) (State)
(Title of officer administering aaths)
NOTE The wth of offer must administered by & person authonad by state is adminiter paths
and not before entrance day. Form used for re-appointments of employess must be executed and dated be the
expiration of appointments
14-93111
(M)
