14-00000

# SECRET
#### SECURITY INFORMATION

_14-00000_

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
CROZIER, ROSS L. 201-168

SECRET

Vol. II of ㅍ

OFFICIAL CS FILE

(Jan. 1952 - August 1956)

FORM 1505B
3.66

SECRET

_14-00000_

□ UNCLASSIFIED

☐ IN
USE ONLY

□ CONFIDENTIAL

☐ SECRET

#### ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM RID/FIP HN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

EXTENSION NO. 241 HIKA 2897

DATE GEGE 4/13 DATE 944656

OFFICER'S INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a fine across column after each comment.)

1. RID/AN GA50 UU 201-168881
SUBJECT: CROZIER, Ross L. VAIVADA, Arthur G. (P)
2.
3. RID/EDI
4.
5. RID/FIP GELL 7 6-1: Plies note processing thru RD/ED's incomplete. Please forward to complete avinact process.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

4.3X
13.
14.
15.
FORN NO. 610 EDITIONS REPLACES FORM 55-03 WHICH MAY BE USED SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY 211-168881 UNCLASSIFIED

_14-00000_

VIA AIR (Specity Air or Sea Pouch)

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Acting Chief of Stationf

SUBJECT: GENERAL / --6Operational/KUCATE SPECIFIC
Acting Chief of Station Ktabana Arthur G. VAIVADA-Request for KUCAGE Operational Clearance

SECRET CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO. HKH-A-2897

DATE 9. August 1956

It is requested that an operational clearance de obtained for VAIVADA which will permit the Station to discuss with him KUCAGE operations in the student field. We realize that VAIVADA is fully occupied with hispresent duties, and it is not intended to place any responsibility on hin for KUCAGE operations. It would be of great assistance to the Station, however, if the writer could be permitted to obtain VALVADA's views on the type of KUCAGE activity in the student field which might be most likely to succeed, ard capitalize on his knowledge of the field by using him as a spotter. (we have in mind the organization of a student political action team similar to the one operating in frazil under project ALKALINE-C.)

Distribution: 3- Washington 2- Files 8 August 1956 TKL/pls

FORM NO. 194951-28A

SECRET CLASSIFICATION GS COPY

Theodore K. Fislett Theodore K. LISLEM

201-16-8881-

201-16885-1

HAHA 2897 9AU656

200-3723

_14-00000_

□ UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

### ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

#### SECRET 17 April 1956

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before-further routing This Routing and Pecord Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: RI/ANALYSIS TELEPHONE NO. HKH-A-2577 DATE

#### DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS ROOM RECEIVED NO. REED FWD'D TELEPHONE COMMENTS

1. WH 1046 Hall 20 VAIVADA, ARTHUR 6.
2.  COPY DETACHED2
3.  MCG See momo to Bordated 19 June 1986 Promotion nequitol 3 May-OK
4. Clas further adio Subject granted Gesno equivalent and station notifred on 29 May 56 with netation that qustich Of state status would, be torte handled separately.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13. Montay dom 201-168 88
14.
15 RI/FI 1409 DATE 19 APR 1956 9
16.

FORN NO. 610 UNCLASSIFIED EDITION! ED SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY

_14-00000_

VIA AIR Specity Air or Sea Pouch)

TO Chief, WHD

FROM Chief of Station, Habana

SUBJECT GENERAL - Operational KU TU BE SPECIFIC - Arther G. Vaivada

SECRET CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO. HEH-A-2577

DATE 17 April 1956

1. Regarding reference (a) the Station concurs fully with the proposed promotion of Arthur G. Vaivada and desires also at this time to bring to the attention of Headquarters the merits of granting Vaivada staff status either concurrently with the promotion or as soon thereafter as may prove feasible.

2. The agent himself has expressed a keen interest in acquiring such status, for a number of obvious reasons. As a contract agent, Vaivada has not been entitled to the standard step increases that accrue to regular CS employees Moreovor he has not had the benefit of recent legislative increases in basic salary rates, such that his salary, originally set 16 August 1954 at the then CS-9 level, is still $5060.00 per anmum. Perhaps of more importance than the foregoing considerations is the fact that this agent has been and is losing out in terms of the retirement, health insurance, and other more long term advantages available to staff personnel. The agent has several times expressed to the case officer his concern, as a family man, over the fact that he is not receiving retirement credits with his years of service. Vaivada's expressed career interests lie in continued employment by KUBARK, more especially in the area of unofficial cover assignments in the field, and in view of his qualities of character and high level of performance for KUBARK the Station has no hesitation in recommending to Headquarters that he be awarded the desired change in status.

3. In view of the agent's present salary level it is recommended that the promotion from his present grade be to the equivalent of a GS-10 at a per anmum salary of $5,915.00. If Headquarters concurs in the recommendation that the agent be granted staff officer status, the agent would move up to the GS-11 grade at that time.

Distributions 3 Wash 2 Files
13 April 1956 FORD BEL 51-28A

SECRET CLASSIFICATION SPR/rrd

Sherwood P. Pochon

RI COPY 201-168881

201-927.23

_14-00000_

VIA AIR (Specty Aur or Sea Pouch)

TO Chief of Mission, Mexico City

FROM Chief, WHD

SUBJECT
{
GENERAL 0 Operations SPECIFIC Arthur G. VAIVADA

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

SECRET PED CLASAT

DISPATCH NO. ΚΑΡΟΚ #309 20--1524

DATE 17 JUN
DESTUSIZED
610-20

1. The following information on Arthur G. VAIVADA is being forwarded so that you may consider using him in Mexico City as a contact agent, which capacity he has served KUFIRE most ably in the past four years. His present contract, which became effective on 1 September 1953 for a two year period, provides for a salary equivalent to grads 05-7, with allowances.

2. A review of the Headquarters file indicates that subject is an aggressive, rather well qualified operative, who han enjoyed a goci measure of success and has exercised good judgment under operational stress. He desires a carser with this Agency, and is devoted to the work. Subject's acedasic oncation has been designed to fit him to becomes an economist. Prion to gutering a contract relation- ship with KUPARK, subject had received. S. Army intelligence training and had worked fer Air Force Intelligence in Panama. He was trained covertly by Anstructors of WBARK in Washington, D.C. in the latter part of 1953. His instructors indicate that they were most favorably impressed and feel that he possesses a sound practical knowledge of osaic clandestine operational principles and should became an increasingly valuable agent in the long rangs work of this organisation.
AY
3. The following is a summary and appraisal of subject's work which has13/X been provided by the Costa Rican Desk at Headquarterss

a. He tas recited by the Panama station in November 1948, bus5 in early 1949 he moved to San Jose, Costa Rica, where he enrolled in the University of Costa Rica as a student of economics. In June-1949-subject acted as cutout-for-two mail intercept agents and handled a low level panetration of the Communist Party. In-October-1949-a-very-high-level penetration of the Communist Party was also turned over Das to the subject, who was by this time devoting approximately

SECRET CLASSIFICATION
I ENCL.
FORM NO.1 20
haitz portes . . Doerflinger line

RED 201-167181

_14-00000_

SEPOLT ULUTILI

-2-

КАРОК #309 HG-5-1524

half his time to our work. Since that tise his mala daties have been to act as cutout and direct these agents. His most important single activity has been debriefing the high-level penetration agent whom he has been able to develop to a point where he end this one agent constituted the most important assets to the station.

b. In the course of his operational cuties, subject has proved himself to be very secarity conscious and to possess a degree of initiative which has impressed the station chief on more than ons occasion. He has participated in setting up safehovaós, vas responsible for recruiting the two mail intercept agents, and has provided the facilities for photographing the material these two agents turn over to him for rapid processing and return to normal mail chamels. Subject has recruited tro additional agents, both of thus are presently being used, and carried out a cold recruitment attempt on a Communist. He participated in a technical surveillance operation in early 1951 during which he was in charge of the monitoring post together with an indigenous agent under his direction.

c. Subject is an expert photographer and at one time operated his own photography shop in San Jose. He is also fairly proficient in sending Morse code, is trained in the use of firearms and has studied and worked with charts and aspo. He is considered an expert in writing reports. Sabjeet has proved himself to be knowledgeable in the usual techniques of covert operations after four years of working in San Jose, and has proved to be invaluable to the station in spotting and/or recruiting additional agents.

4. Subject will be available for duty in the near future. Should you find his qualifications of interest and favor his entry into Baxico as a contract agent, please advise as early as possible. Dunshurst has requested that Subject's possible use

DESEM 0-43-26

_14-00000_

SECRET KAPO

-3-

KAPUK #309 HM-1524

in comcction with future REDCAP questions be considered. J. C. KING

Enclosurer uador sep. cov.

11 June 1954

Distribution:
3 - Maxico City, w/encl. under sep. cev.
1-subj., w/encl.
1-WH/III chrono, w/encl. HiCasen: am

DESENSITIZED per CSH 43-26

SECRETO KATZEK

_14-00000_

SECRET KAPOK

Separate Cover Enclosur to H-1524 d

Riegraphic information concerning subject is given below. A photograph of subject is attached.

Hamot: Ross Lester CROZIER Birth date: 20 June 1922 Birth places DeKalb, Illinois Documentation: valid U.S. passport Harital stotas: Fife - Argentina CORDERO C., born 15 March 1918 at Sam Jose, Costa Rica. Karried 17 Lecsaber 1945 at Cristobal, Cenal Zone. Children - Two

Veteren statuss Subject is no longer eligible to attend school under the O.I. Bill of Rights Description: Height - 6'1 Foight - 180 163, Eyes - blus Hair- bro Other - Nose is slightly inclined to left. Subject has rugged, athletic appearance.

BIDVEDI BECEJAED

LED SS 118 WHI

DESENSITIZED per CSH 43-29 CS COPY

Emil to Himnw 1524 SECRET KAPUSITZED 17 JUN 54 201-168 881

_14-00000_

HISTOR

Sentent to R.D/AN
22 Dec 70

er-HMMW-1524 18 June. 54 201-168581
KHKHA-2577 17 April 56
OK HKHA-2726 7 June 56 201-168881
OK HKHA-2897 30 July 56 201-1688 8.1..
K TRSW-816 6 Oct.2 201-165881

_14-00000_

AIR

SECRET

Chief of Station, FabanA
Chief, W
- Administrative - Arthur C. VAIVADA

Reference: M-W-1731, 4 June 1956

HKH-W-1819 AUG 17 1956

L. Please advise Subject that effective 1 Augaat 1956, his contract, as esanded, is extended for a period of one (1) year.

2. All other torms and conditions of the contract, as aasnded, remain is full force and effect.

14 August 1956.

Distribution: 3- Habana
1 - RI/D&P
1-WH/III/Cuba
1-WH/Mailroom WE/III/Cuba/HOMacAuleysgp

J. C. KING, C/HD SECRET

J. C. KING Chief/WHD

W. GALBRAITH, C/WH/II 201-16888/

_14-00000_

SCCRET

MEMORANDUM FCR: Chief, Finance Division

FRCIA: Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Contract Extension for Arthur G. VAIVADA

1. Effective August 1956 the contract (as amended) is for the subject individual, effective 1 August 1994 is extended for pertode oro (1) year

2. All other terms and conditions of the contract (as amended) remain in full force and effect.
:
APPROVED: 15/

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY /5/ Contracting Officer

SECRET 1 Aug. 56

_14-00000_

PERSONAL PISTORY STATEMENT - (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations Identified by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuant to Executive Order 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, or subversive, or as having adopted or having shown a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force de violence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means.

Each applicant or employee and spouse (if any) must review the following list of organizations for certification purposes, and sign on the last page.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Abraham Lincein School. Chicago, Illinois
Action Committee to Free Spain Now
Alabama People's Educational Association (ace Communist Politi- cal Association)

American Association for Reconstruction in Yugoslavia, Ine.
American Branch of the Federation of Greek Marttime Unions
American Christian Nationalle: Party
American Committee for European Worters' Relief (see Socialist
Workers Party)

American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born
American Committee for Spanish Freedom
American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in Birobidjan, Inc.
American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, Ince.
American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in Europe
American Counell for a Democratic Greece, formerly known as the Greek American Council; Greek American Committee for Na- tional Unity

American Council on Soviet Relations
American Croatian Congress
American Jewish Labor Council
American League Against War and Pasciam
American League for Peace and Derт. остасу
American Lithuanian Workers Literary Association (also known as Amerikos Lietuviu Darbininku Literaturos Draugija)

American National Labor Par.y
American National Socialist League
American National Socialist Party
American Nationalist Party
American Patriots, Inc.
American Pesce Crusade
American Peace Mobilization
American Poles for Peace
American Polish Labor Council
American Polish League
American Rescue Ship Mission (s project of the United American Spanish Aid Committee)

American-Russian Praternal Society
American Russian Institute, New York, also known as the Ameri- can Russian Institute for Cultural Relations with the Soviet Union

American Russian Institute, Philadelphia
American Russian Institute of San Prancisco
American Russian Institute of Southern California, Los Angeles
American Stav Congress
American Women for Peace
American Youth Congresa
American Youth for Democracy
Armenian Progressive League of America
Associated Klans of America
Association of Georgia Klans
Association.of.German-Nationals: (Reichsdeutsche Vereinigung)- Association of Lithuanian Workers (slso known as Lietuviu Dar- bininku Susivienijimas)

Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch of Nazi-Party

Baltimore Porum
Benjamin Davis. Freedom Committee
Black-Dragon Society
Boston School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massach neets

Mar 56 -1-
Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt Defense Commitzer
Bulgarian American People's League of the United States of America

California Emergency Defense Committee
California Labor School, Ine, 321 Divisadero Street, San Fraлство, California

Carpatho-Russian People's Society
Central Council of American Women of Crostian Descent, steo known as Central Council of American Croatian Women, Ma tional Council of Croatian Women

Central Japanese Association (Beikoku Chuo Nipponjin Kal)
Central Japanese Association of Southern California
Central Organization of the German-American National Alliance (Deutsche-Amerikanische Einheitsfront)

Cervantes Praternal Society
China Welfare Appeal, Inc.
Chopin Cultural Center
Citizens Committee for Harry Bridges
Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side (New York City)
Citizens Committee to Pree Earl Browder
Citizens Emergency Defense Conference
Citizens Protective Lesque
Ciril Liberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh
Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organizations, including:
Civil Rights Congress for Texas
Veterans Against Discrimination of Cird Rights Congress of New York

Civil Rights Congress for Texas (see Civil Rights Congress)
Columbians
Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola
Comite Pro Derechos Civiles
(See Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles)
Committee for a Democratic Par Eastern Policy
Committee for Constitutional and Political Preedom
Committee for Nationalist Action
Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia
Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Sts
Committee for the Negro in the Arts
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights
Committee for World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange
Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland
(See Congress Against Discrimination: Maryland Congress Against Discrimination: Provisional Committee to Aboilsh Dia crimination in the State of Maryland)

Committee to Aid the Fighting South
Committee to Defend Marie Richardson
Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of Pittsburgh Political Prisoners

Committee to Uphold the Bill of Rights
Commonwealth College, Mens, Arkansas
Communist Party, U. 8. A, its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and amliates
Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and amliates, including:

Alabama People's Educational Association
Florida Press and Educational League:
Oklahoma League for Political Education
People's Educational and Press Acctation of Texas
Virginia League for People's Education

23 July 1956
(4)
201-168881

_14-00000_

Congress Against Discrimination
(See Committee to Abolian Discrimination in Maryland)
Congress of American Revolutionary Writers
Congress of American Women
Congress of the Unemployed
Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith Act
Connecticut State Youth Conference
Council for Jobs, Relief and Housing
Council for Pan-American Democraсу
Council of Greek Americans
Council on African Acairs
Croatian Benevolent Praternity

Dai Nippon Butoku Kal (Military Virtue Society of Japan or Mli- tary Art Bociety of Japan)
Dally Worker Press Club
Daniels Defense Committee
Dante Alighieri Society (between 1935 and 1940)
Dennis Defense Committee
Detroit Youth Assembly

East Bay Peace Committee
Elsinore Progressive League
Emergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees (founding body of the North American Spanish Aid Committee)
Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War

Families of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims
Families of the Smith Act Victims
Federation of Italian War Veterans in the U. 8. A., Inc. (Associa- zione Nazionale Combattenti Italiani, Pederazione degli Stati Uniu d'America)

Pinnish-American Mutual Aid Bociety
Florida Press and Educational League (see Communist Political Association)

Prederick Douglass Educational Center
Freedom Stage, Inc.
Priends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neuen Deutschlands)
Friends of the Soviet Union

Garibaldi American Fraternal Society
George Washington Carver School, New York City
German-American Bund (Amerikadeutscher Volksbund)
German-American Republican League
German-American Vocational League (Deutsche-Amerikanische Berufsgemeinschaft)

Guardian Club

Hartem Trade Union Council
Hawall Civil Liberties Committee
Heimusha Kai, also known as Nokubei Feleki Gimusta Kai. Zalbel Nihonjin, ciraku Olmusha Kal, and Zaibel Hermunda Kai (Jap- anese Residing in America Military Conscripts Association)

Hellenic-American Brothertood
Hinode Kat (Imperial Japanese Reservista)
Hinomaru Kal (Rising Sun Flag Society-a group of Japanese War Veterans)

Hokubel Zaigo Shoka Dan (North American Reserve Officers Asso- ciation)

Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense
Hungarian-American Council for Demoстасу
Hungarian Brotherhood

Idaho Pension Union
Independent Party (Besttle, Washington)
(See Independent People's Party)
Independent People's Party
(See Independent Party)
Independent Socialist League
Industrial Workers of the World
International Labor Defense
International Workers Order, its subdivisions, subsidiaries and affiliates

Japanese Association of Amer
Japanese Overseas Central Society (Kaigal Dubo Chuo Kal)
Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1943
Japanese Protective Association (Recruiting Organization)
Jefferson School of Social Science, New York City
Jewish Culture Society
Jewish People's Committee
Jewish People's Praterzal Order
Jikyoku Iinkai (
Committee for the Crisis)
Johnson-Pores: Group
(Bee Johnsonises)
Johnsonites
(Bee Johnson-Purest Group)
Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee
Joint Council of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc.
Joseph Wecemepes Schink of Social Science, St. Louis, Missouri

Kibel Beinen Kal (Association of U. 8. Chizens of Japanese An- cestry who have returned to America after studying in Japan)
Knights of the White Camellia
Ku Klux Klan
Kyttharuser, aso known as Kythsenser League (Kythaeuser Bund). Kythaeuser Pellowship (Kyfthaeuser Kameradschaft
Kyffhseuser War Pelief (Kyffhaeuser Kriegshilfswerk)

Labor Council for Negro Rights
Labor Research Association, Inc.
Labor Youth Learne
League for Common Sense
League of American Writers
Lictor Society (Italian Black Shirts)

Macedonian-American People's League
Mario Morgantini Circle
Maritime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon
Mary'and Congress Against Discrimination
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights
Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (cot connected with the Minute Women of the U. 8. A., Inc.)

Maurice Braverman Defense Committee
Michigan Civil Rights Federation
Michigan Council for Peace
Michigan School of Social Science

Nanka Teikoku Gunyudan (Imperial Military Priends Group or Southern California War Veterans

National Association of Mexican Americans (also known as Aroda cion Nacional Mexico-Americana)

National Blue Star Mothers of America (not to be confused with the Blue Star Mothers of America organized in February 2942)
National Contittee for Freedom of the Press
National Committee for the Defense of Political Prison.rm
National Committee 715 Amnesty for Smith Act Victims
National Committee to Win the Peace

National Conference on American Policy in China and the Par Bast (a Coulerena called by the Committee for & Democratke Por Rastern Policy)

National Court of Americana of Croatian Descent
National Coundi American-Soviet Friendship
National Federation for Constitutional Liberties
National Labor Conference for Peace
National Negro Congress
National Negro Labor Council
Nationalist Action League
Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
Nature Friends of America (str.ce 1935)
Negro Labor Victory Committee
New Committee for Publications
Fichibet Kogyo Kaisha (The Great Fufit Theatre)
Forth American Committee to Aid Spanish Democrac
North American Spanish Aid Committee
North Philadelphia Forun
Northwest Japanese Association

_14-00000_

Ohio School of Social Sciences
Oklahoma Committee to Defend Poutical Prisoners
Oklahoma League for Political Education (see Communist Political Association)

Original Southern Klans, Incorporated

Pacific Northwest Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Palo Alto Peace Club
Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating in the Canal Zone)
Peace Information Center
Peace Movement of Ethiopia
People's Drama, Inc.

People's Educational and Presa Association of Texas (see Commu- Dist Political Association)

People's Educational Association (incorporated under name Los Angeles Educational Association. Inc.), also known as People's Educational Center, People's University, People's School

People's Institute of Applied Religion
Peoples Programs (Seattle, Washington)
People's Radio Foundation, Inc.
People's Rights Party
Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights
Philadelphia School of Social Science and Art
Photo League (New York City)
Pittsburgh Arts Club
Political Prisoners' Welfare Committee
Polonia Society of the IWO
Progressive German-Americans, also known as Progressive German- Americans of Chicago

Proletarian Party of America
Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc.
Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, Southwest Aren
Provisional Committee on Latin American AJairs
Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of Maryland
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC)
(See Comite Pro Derechos Civiles)
Puertorriquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans United)

Quad City Committee for Peace
Queensbridge Tenants League

Revolutionary Workers League
Romanian-American Fratercal Society
Bussian American Society. Inc.
Bakura Kal (Patriotic Society, or Cherry Association-composed of veterans of Russo-Japanese War)
Samuel Adams School, Boston, Marsachusetts
Santa Barbara Peace Porum
Bchappes Defense Committee
Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee
School of Jewish Studies, New York City
Seattle Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Serbian-American Fraternal Society
Berbian Vidovdan Council

Shinto Temples (limited to State Shinto abolished in 19451 Sliver Shirt Legion of America
Slave Council of Southern California
Slovak Workers Society
Slovenian-American National Counci
Socialis: Workers Party, including American Committee for Bro- pean Workers' Relief

Socialist Youth League (see Workers Party)
Sokołu Kal (Fatherlard Society)
Southern Negro Youth Congress
Suiko Sha (Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles)
Syracuse Women for Peace

Tom Paine School of Social Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvacis Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York
Trade Union Committee for Peace
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Trade Unionists for Peace
(Bee Trade Union Committee for Peace)
Tri-State Negro Trade Union Councdl

Ukrainian-American Praternal Union
Union of American Cтов: Зала
Union of New York Veterans
United American Spanish Aid Committee
United Committee of Jewish Societies and Landsmanachats Peders tioca, also known as Coordination Committee of Jewish Late manschaften and Fraternal Organizations
United Committee of South Slavic Americans
Chited Defense Council of Southern California
United Hartem Tenents and Consumers Organization
United May Day Committee
United Negro and Allted Veterans of America

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of Few York (see Civil Rights Congress)
Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Virginia League for People's Education (see Communist Poltral Association)
Voice of Freedom Committee

Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newark, New Jersey
Washington Bookshop Association
Washington Committee for Democratic Action
Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights
Washington Commonwealth Federation
Washington Pension Caion
Wisconsin Conference on Social Legislation
Workers Alliance (since April 1936)
Workers Party, including Socialist Youth League

Yiddisher Kultur Parand
Young Communist League
Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home, Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc.

-

_14-00000_

CERTIFICATION

I certify that I have read the names of the above listed organizations.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, I am not, nor have I been a member of, contributed to, received liter- ature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any organization listed above, or any organization outside the United States espousing Communist, Fascist, Totalitarian or Nazl causes, except as noted below.

To the best of my knowledge and bellef, none of my close relatives are, nor have ever been members of con- tributed to, received literature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any such organiza tions, except as noted below.

INSTRUCTIONS

For the purpose of this certification, if an applicant or employee is completing this form, the tersa "close rela- tive" will include spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts. "Close relatives" of the spouse, for this purpose, will include children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts.

If there are exceptions to this certification, set forth below under Remarks all pertinent information concern- ing the nature and extent of your activities or those of your close relatives in such organizations, including the names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings attended, titles of positions held, amounts and dutes of contributions, nature of petitions signed falling within the meaning of the above certification and circumstances thereof, titles and authors of literature received, and dates on which received.

In exceptions concerning relatives, include only such information presently known to you or arcilable from your own records.

If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write none if there are no exceptions.

REMARKS: To be completed by Spouse

REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee

Date 23 JULY 1956

Date 23 JULY 1956

Argentina Cordero de Cozie (Signature of Spouse)

(City and State)

(Witness)

(Address)

Ross L. Crozier

(Signature of Applicant or Employee)

(City and State)

(Witness)

(Address)

_14-00000_

