14-00000
104-10129-10034
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE: 19 June 1962

WASHINGTON INPUT: Under Project 1 Service

DISTRIBUTION:

ACTION: Mr/Gray Rollinson
FROM: Mr. Kirkpatrick
INFO: Mr. D'Olier
Mr. Rockefeller

REFERENCES:

ENCLOSURES:

1. The credentials stated above are intended to cover both types of materials in order for these individuals who are participating in the enterprise, Project Liberty.

2. Photographs taken will be made available with the following inscription: “The party requesting the all services furnished should be C (certain/obvious).

3. The credentials will be released promptly to individuals in the various parts of the United States participating in Project Liberty by the personnel of this branch in order to facilitate the movement of individuals with as little scrutiny as possible by the Chief of Standing Braves.

4. The allocation set forth in the attached memorandum have been considered with the Department of Justice and seem advisable to take as of now on the existing problem.

5. Photographs for all seven individuals are being required and will be furnished to you as soon as possible.

DDS/IOS
ADDS/IOS
ASST/IOS
/ID
/OSD
/SRB
/AB
/PB
/SAB
/SB

CPS0 F214442 SECRET

6. As with the requests for personnel who are traveling for commercial firms, they should, in fact, be in the type of clerical, commercial, or business-type employment as indicated and not operating as soliciting officers of the World Bank, etc., with all cover credentials. After Mr. Rockefeller, stages his recognition plans, he should return them to the source Liberty Security Coordinator, who, in turn, places them

7. We have questions regarding the proposed undertaking should it not take on the form of an act, SICO.

JOHN F. KENNEDY
President Request
That David S

Attachments:
1. Allocation Sheets
as per 6/15/62
SAB

SECRET
