104-10114-10162 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE
COPY.

7 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION: Mr. Sam J. Papich

SUBJECT: COURT FOSTER WOOD
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference is made to a 25 March 1961 and a 6 July 1961 in-
vestigative report on captioned Subject which have previously
been furnished to this Agency.

3 8
Michael Weimer Stratton, born 21 January 1941, Austin, Texas],
who is a current Agency employee, has recently been interviewed
concerning his knowledge of Court Foster Wood whom [Stratton] had
known since mutual attendance in high school. Attached is a de-
tailed report of the information furnished by [Stratton] concerning
his knowledge of Wood.
3

3
Since [Stratton] personally has sufficient reason to question
the activities of Wood and the activities of the associates of
Wood, [Stratton] has been advised to discontinue any further contact
with Wood. 3

It would be appreciated if your Bureau would furnish this
Agency any additional information brought to your attention con-
cerning Court Foster Wood and of particular interest would be any
information received by your Bureau concerning past association
of Court Foster Wood with Michael Weimer Stratton
3
The above information is for your use only and should not be
disseminated outside your Bureau.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

Attachment:
As noted R. L. Bannerman
Acting Director of Security

OS/SRS/BLSolie:ect - 16 October 1961
SECRET
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
16
BR

14-00000
12
Attachment:
As noted
R. L. Bannerman
Acting Director of Security
OS/SRS/BLSolie:ect - 16 October 1961

SECRET
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

14-00000

RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE
COPY.

SUBJECT: Court Foster Wood
3
Michael Weimer Stratton has recently advised that Court 3
Foster Wood was a relatively close high school friend of [Stratton].
during mutual attendance at George Mason High School, Falls Church,
Virginia, during 1957 to 1959. Stratton described Wood as an
average high school student who had no particular problems with
the exception that there were domestic difficulties between the
father and mother of Wood.

3
[Stratton] became acquainted with the parents of Wood and made
occasional visits to their home during the above period of time.
The father of Wood, Foster Wood, is an attorney who was then living
in Falls Church. Some time ago the father and mother of Court Wood
split up and Court Wood and father moved into an apartment on
Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.

3
Stratton advised that after graduation from high school in
June 1959 he lost any close contact with Wood who then started to
attend George Mason College, where he seemed to have an interest
in philosophy. 3 Stratton started to attend a military school and
Wood expressed extreme opposition to military schools.
3 3
Stratton married in 1960, which also helped to move [Stratton]
somewhat out of the social circle of Wood. 3 Stratton believed that
for approximately a year, during 1959 to 1960, he did not actually
see Wood but advised that after this period in which he did not
see Wood he has had a number of contacts with Wood, many of which
occurred during mutual attendance at the University of Virginia
Extension School (night school) in early 1961. On one occasion
3 Stratton attended a party at the apartment occupied by Wood and
father at the invitation of Wood, and on this occasion came into
contact with the "new set of friends" of Court Wood, whom Stratton3
described as being "beatnik types." Girls in attendance at the
party, according to Stratton, appeared to be of the "street pickup"
type.
3

After the above party Wood occasionally telephoned [Stratton]
and about Christmas 1960 Wood called and stated that he was going
to Cuba under the auspices of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
3 Stratton called on Wood after the return of Wood from Cuba and at
that time Wood lauded Castro very highly. The father of Wood was
also present and Stratton obtained the impression that the father
was also in sympathy with Castro. 3 Stratton recalled that he again,
at a later date, had visited the Wood apartment, this being an
occasion when Wood had been visiting somewhere in Falls Church
and contacted Stratton to ask Stratton to take Wood home. On this
3.
了
SECRET
18
BR

14-00000
occasion Stratton stayed at the Wood apartment for approximately ten minutes,
and advised that on this occasion he observed some Communist literature.
Complete in the apartment. Upon prompting by interviewer, Stratton recalled that this
literature had something concerning the "Fair Play for Cuba Committee." Also during the
visit to the apartment, Stratton observed that there was a Cuban girl living at
the apartment.
3
Stratton advised that Stratton's father had related to him that he would never
attend the University of Virginia Extension School which was conducted in
conjunction with the Washington and Lee High School. Both Wood and
[Stratton] were attending the classes, but were not attending mutual
classes. Stratton recalled that on one occasion Wood had related to
him that he was thinking about going to Cuba or Mexico concerning Government jobs.
Stratton recalled that Wood had related about going to Cuba to
make some permanent residence, and while Stratton attempted to ascertain the effect of
this time would be, Stratton did not remember the rationale of the statement.
3

Stratton advised that Wood had stated to him that there were certain
Communist leaders in Washington who were very effective and were operating in the United States.
Stratton repeated that he and Wood had attended High School together.
In June 1959 Stratton and Wood attended a graduation party at the
willows Beach. Stratton does not know the location of the willows Beach.
At this occasion, Stratton met a girlfriend of Wood's, who resided in
Arlington, Virginia. A little later Stratton saw Wood and the
girl in a parked car and Stratton learned later that Wood had married
the girl. This girl lived in Arlington near a school. This girl worked
for the CIA, and was doing very classified work, and Stratton stated that
Wood stated that it was possible for her to get the code "Blue Jay"
3 Stratton stated that one time he had asked Wood if he knew anything
about the Kennedy administration.
3 Stratton, in answer to whether Stratton recalled any other Code names or
codewords, wrote the following on the paper which reads: "Code on above is FY; The
Communications intelligence programme under the World War II Navy adventure, I
helped to write the programme, as regards to the coding system, as advance and

3-03
in my words. In latter days I had no connection with the security
of the programme. Stratton recalls that Wood had the "attitude"
for spending more time than Wood had when Stratton first met Wood.
In discussing Wood's present employment, Wood has not been in touch
with Stratton during the present job. Stratton stated that Wood lives
at 3907 Wyoming avenue, and that Wood's telephone number is EM 2-6703
Stratton had mentioned that he was going to see Wood in his office,

3 03
but does not know where Wood's office is.

3
11
BR

14-00000

George Mason College with Wood. [Stratton] also recalled a trip to the Elliot
party which he attended with Wood, and at that the presence of aged and elderly
Communists. Stratton also stated that a certain Attorney, George Kays of
Falls Church was the one that sent the elderly Communists to George Mason
High School.

3
Stratton first met Wood in a summer time job. Stratton recalled that,
3 Stratton, has a rather hazy memory with reference to the details.
Stratton had met a Wood in connection with this job. This individual
subsequently saw Stratton, at one time in the activities of the Anti-Subversive
Association; that presently is now known as the Washington Research,
but Stratton recently moved to Philadelphia.

3
Stratton denies knowing a girl of Stratton] in the new pamphlets of
Wood, and has never if his
ever conversed with any of his
friends.

3
That the time of the above trip to [Stratton] that Wood had made

to Washington was because [Stratton] was going to go to a class at Wood's
apartment and the above Wood offered to

6
BR

14-00000

11

Aid record
SECRET
