14-00000
104-10173-10171 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LESNICK MAX
201-209258
VOL. II

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
10/6/75 12/10/75 BETSY PALMER
9AUG78 8/7/78 PAT ORR
11AUG78
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

LESNICK, MAX
201-209258

14-00000
1461

SECRET 23
FRP:

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

ACTION: OG/PCD-7 (850) INFO: ODPD-D, RF, FILE, DORECORD, (10/W)

79 1972436 PAGE 001 1972436
TOR: 091842Z FEB 79 SOOM 20190

SECRET 091748Z FEB 79 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 20190

TO: WASHINGTON,

FOR: LA/COG INFO LA/CARIB,

SUBJECT: WNINTEL FGI EMPYREX TRACE

1. EMPYREX (LIAISON) REQUESTS TRACESON MAX LESNICK
E. MENENDEZ: BORN 8 SEPT 1930, HAVANA, CUBA JOURNALIST WHO IS
REQUESTING VISA TRAVEL DOM REP FOR BUSINESS TRIP. SUBJECT APPEARS
TO BE IDENTICAL WITH MAX EDGARDO LESNICK MENDEZ (201-209258)
CUIS PRINTOUT NO. 151438. STATION TRACES CONTAINED UFG-01709,
20 OCT 62 AND UFG-03590, 10 SEPT 63, INDICATE LESNICK ANTI-CASTRO
CUBAN EXILE BROADCASTER AND STATION IS PERPLEXED SUBJECT'S
INCLUSION IN CUIS.

2. INDEX: LESNICK, FILE: 201-209258. RVW 9 FEB 09
DRV-0981.

END OF MESSAGE SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

..DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT:

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FAHY WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIGNAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHEULC PE REQUESTED
FREN IP/FILES.

LESNIK, MAX 200-006-495/18
201-0209258 DTR-01586
SEX M 18 JAN 78
TREA
P3
CIRECTOR AND PUBLISER OF REPLICA, A SPANISH
MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MIAMI.
ATTENDED MEETING FOR PURPOSE OF CRGANIZING A
SECRET ANTI-CASTRO GROUP.

DATE 06 FFB 78 09517279

201-209258

SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY: 054979

14-00000

CABLES FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 16 NOVEMBER 1977
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN
THE U.S.; FCI - CURA

DATE: 6 AUGUST 1977
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: WILD STALLION, INTERNAL SECURITY
CURA-PANAΝΑ

14-00000
FURM U-SIDA (NEV. 10-1-74
BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(Family name) (First name) (Middle name) NATIONALITY ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.
LESNICK Max Menendez Cuban A12 542 415
ALL OTHER NAMES USED (including names by previous marrioges) BIRTHDATE (Mo-Day-Yr.) SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
MALE 9/5/ FEMALE 9/2/30 (1.261-72-9903
FATHER FIRST NAME CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE
Lesnick Samuel Poland 1903 Santo Domingo, D. Reublic
MOTHER (Maiden name) FIRST NAME DATE CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE
Menendez Teresa Miriam 3/26/32 Havana, Cuba 12/29/55 Havana, Cub
FAMILY NAME (if none, so state) BIRTHDATE DATE & PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE

FORMER HUSBANDS OR WIVES (if, none, so state)
FAMILY NAME (For wife, give maiden name) FIRST NAME
FIRST NAME Alvarez

APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.
STREET AND NUMBER CITY PROVINCE OR STATE COUNTRY FROM TO
MONTH YEAR MONTH YEAR
5530 Sardina C. Gables Fla. U.S.A. Jan 75 PRESENT TIME
1730 Pizarro C. Gables Fla. U.S.A. Jan 73 Jan. 75
2122 S.พ. 22 Terr, Miami Fla U.S.A. March 66 Jan. 73
APPLICANT'S LAST ADDRESS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR
STREET AND NUMBER CITY PROVINCE OR STATE COUNTRY FROM TO
MONTH YEAR MONTH YEAR
Banos -205 Havana Havana Cuba 56 Jan 61
APPLICANTS EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS (IF NONE, SO STATE) LIST PRESENT EMPLOYMENT FIRST
FULL NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER OCCUPATION(SPECIFY) FROM TO
MONTH YEAR MONTH YEAR
2994 N.W. 7 St. Miami, Fla. 33125 President Oct. 67 PRESENT TIME
Replica Publishing, Inc.

NAI TO CSCI-3/764/464 DATED. 27 MARCH 1961, SUBJECT: LESNIK--MENENDEZ, MAX
PREVIOUSLY SENT TO YOUR SERVICE. ALSO REFER TO THE FBI. 12 May 1977
RFB
Show below last occupation abroad if not shown above. (Include all information requested above.)
Cadena Oriental de Radio, Havana, Cuba commentator 59 Aug 60
THIS FORMIS SUBMITTED IN CONNECTION WITH APPLICATION FOR SIGNATURE DATE
PETITIONER
MATURALIZATION ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS
OTHER (SPECIFIES
IF POUR NATIVE ALAN OTHER THAN ROMAR LETTERS
RARE YOUR RATIVE ALPHABET TAIG:
Are all copies legible? Yes
FIDIALTIES SEVERE PENALTIES ARE PROVIDED BY LAW FOR KROWINGLY AND WILLFULLY FALSIFTING OR CONCEALING A MATERIAL FACT

APPLICANT: BE SURE TO PUT YOUR NAME AND ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER IN
THE BOX OUTLINED BY HEAVY BORDER BELOW.
(Family name) (Given name) (Middle name)
LESNICK-Menendes Max
Alión registration No.
A12 542 416
(OTHER AGENCY USE) INS USE (Office of Origin)
T-485A
OFFICE CODE:
TYPE OF CASE:
DATE:
ΜΙΑ.
T.C
APR 2 8 1377
01-209258

14-00000
- ALIGN FIRST LINEKIN 311
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
PAGE 1 OF
•
AGE 3
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
• O
0 O
-AGE SECRET 3 • -MC
INDICATOR
AGE
INDICATOR
STAFF O A ONE . INDICATOR
4 CON CONF 5 - 9
• - M C -
•
INDICATOR
A.
DATE-TIME GROUP MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF 0120172 DIRECTOR 936139 DISSEM BY:
0 CONE CA:; 01.270172 CITE PEK
INFO: FILE 915/1764
TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO LA/MIΑΜΙ.Υ
UNINTEL RYBAT PERAMPART MHSPIKE Y
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 934495.
B. DIRECTOR 933847-
C. PANAMA CITY 38750 IN 076237
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ELESS 201'S) MAY BE PASSED TO THE..
INTERNAL
ITS
470TH FOR INFO ONLY:
A. ALDO INOCENCIO VERA SERAFIN (201-0326634) ДРОВ
28 JULY 1928, CAIBARIEN, LAS VILLAS, CUBA FORMER UNDERGROUND LEADER
AGAINST BATISTA 1955-59 AND PROMINENT MEMBER IN 26TH OF JULY
MOVEMENT. HELD SEVERAL POSITIONS IN CASTRO'S EARLY REVOLUTIONARY
GOVERNMENT INCLUDING THAT OF CHIEF OF THE TECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS
DEPARTMENT (DTI) THE MAIN INTELLIGENCE ORGAN OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL
POLICE. ARRIVED IN U.S. WITH WIFE AND BABY AS A REFUGEE ON 13 MARCH
1961. ISSUED PERMANENT U.S. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A-12-486-223 IN
JUNE 1965. IN 1972 NOVED TO PUERTO RICO. VERA WAS VERY ACTIVE IN
ANTI-CASTRO
CUBAN EXILE GROUPS UP UNTIL THE TIME HE WAS KILLED BY UNKNOWN
ASSAI ANTS ON 25 OCTOBER 1976 IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.Y
DATE:
ORIG:.
UNIT:
EXT:
B 201-326634
DELABING OFFICE-
CLASSIFICATION
RECORD COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATINO OPPICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY PAGE
3 -MC SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
PAGE 2 OF
SECRET
MESSA ANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
0 CONF: INFO: FILE DIRECTOR 936139 DISSEM BY:
TO
• RETURNTO O PEK
B. MAX EDGARDO LESNICK (201-0209258) DPOB 8 SEPT
1930, VUELTAS LAS VILLAS, CUBA FLED TO U.S. IN JANUARY 1961. 885
ISSUED PERMANENT U.S. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A-12-542-416 IN JANUARY
1961. HAS BEEN THE PUBLISHER OF THE SMALL EXILE NEWSPAPER "REPLICA"
IN MIAMI SINCE 1963 AND A COMMENTATOR FOR A DAILY NEWS PROGRAM "RADIO
ANTI-CASTRO
REPLICA SINCE 1964. INVOLVED WITH SEVERAL CUBAN EXILE GROUPS.Y
(INTERNAL
2. ADDEE INFO ONLY::
A. THERE ARE NUMEROUS FBI REPORTS ON VERA AND HIS ACTIVITIES
WHILE A MEMBER OF VARIOUS EXILE GROUPS AND ESPECIALLY CONCERNING
VERA'S INVOLVEMENT WITH THE GROUP ACCION CUBANA (AC), WHICH IS A
SMALL CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST GROUP HEADED BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND
WHICH HAS CLAIMED CREDIT FOR A NUMBER OF BOMBINGS AGAINST CUBAN
EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES BKHERALD HAS HAD CONTACT WITH VERA OFF-AND-
ON SINCE 1964. BESIDES THE CONTACT DESCRIBED IN REF B VERA WAS
BEING CONSIDERED IN 1964 FOR THE AMWORLD PROGRAM, BUT THIS DID NOT
MATERIALIZE. AN INTERESTING NOTE IS FACT THAT VERA WAS REGISTERED BY
THE ARMY WITH ISR FOR THE PERIODS JANUARY JULY 1964 AND AUGUST 1964-
APRIL 1966, BOTH TIMES BEING DROPPED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.Y
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
RELEASING OFFICE COORDINATING OPFI, ERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION REPRODUC BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PR
BITED E 2 IMPDET
SECRET CL BY: 007255

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

:
SECRET
STAFF
CONE:
CONF:
INFO: FILE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
2
ACP
TOO
१९
:3
MESSAGE REFERENCE MUMBER
DATE-time GROUP
DIRECTOR 936139
D83
DISSEM BY:
0
0
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
PER

8. CONCERNING LESNICK, SEVERAL FBI REPORTS INDICATE LESNICK
WAS ASSOCIATED WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AND WAS INVOLVED IN AND. SUPPORTED A
NUMBER OF CUBAN EXILE REVOLUTIONARY GROUPS' TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
ANOTHER FSI REPORT INDICATED THAT LESNICK RECEIVED MONEY FROM PANAMA
IN CONNECTION WITH NARCOTICS TRAFFIC AND ALLEGEDLY. WAS RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE ARREST IN PANAMA OF GABRIEL GREGORIO RODRIGUEZ, WHO WAS
SUSPECTED OF PLOTTING AGAINST THE TORRIJOS GOVERNMENT IN PANAMA. THE
LATEST FSI INFO ON LESNICK RECEIVED IN SEPTEMBER 1974 REPORTED THAT
LESNICK AND ORLANDO BOSCH WERE NO LONGER COOPERATING BECAUSE OF AN
ARGUMENT OVER MONEY. LESNICK WAS ONCE CONTACTED BY THE HAVANA
STATION IN AUGUST 1957 AS PART OF THAT STATION'S LONG RANGE
DEVELOPMENT OF OPS ASSETS. THERE IS NO INDICATION OF ANY FURTHER
OPERATIONAL INTEREST.Y

4. FILE: 201-0209258201-0326634. E2 IMPDET.H

LA COMMENT: A. INDICATED TRACES ON VERA AND LESNICK WOULD FOLLOW
SEPARATELY.
B. INFORMED ADDEES OF ASSASSINATION OF VERA ON 25 OCTOBER
1976 AND GAVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF AGENCY CONTACT WITH
VERA

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

MLESS CAPICER COORDINATING OFFICES AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
•
-

5 - SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
PAGE
SECRET -MC MESSAGE HANDING INDICATOR
STAFF DATE TIME GROUP DIRECTOR 936139 DISSEM BY:
CONF: INFO: FILE •
• NO INDEX
• RETURN TO PEP
C. REQUESTED TRACES ON VERA AND LESNICK AND ASKED HOS
INDICATE WHAT INFO COULD BE PASSED TO THE 470TH.

DC/LA/COG W. MURRAY CIN DRAFT)
C/LA/CAR
AC/CI/OG/AT Harry Irevey
AGC/DDO
PCS/LSN/MIL
PCS/ITG

DATE: 29 OCTOBER 18976
LESLIE BRUDZINSKI PAULETTE DANCY MEH
ORI
UNIT: LA/PNC/PA
EXT: 1454
L. Lasn for
C/LA
RELEASING OFFICER
LASOS AC/LA/PNC
AUTHENTICATING
...
*... • AUTHENTICATING CE
*... *. •.
