14-00000

1984-10215-10096 1 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 201-168881 CROZIER, Ross L 2
FORM 1505 B SECRET
3-68
Vol. Ⅳ of ㅍ
OFFICIAL CS FILE
( June 1958 - Dec. 1960 )
SECRET

14-00000*
130ES/OBdr CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 201-37725
201-168881
DATE: Ø2 JAN 59 SECRET
TO: DIRECTOR ROUTING: 
1 4
2 5
3 6
FROM: HAVANA PRIORITY
RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
ACTION: WH 5 if file this copy as indicatud
Branch copy fileal as indicated
RE Indang (check one):
DCI, D/DCI, COP, A/DD/P/P, FI, F/OPS, FT/ROM 3 IN 43348
INFO: PP 2, PP/PRD, PP/PYD 2, S/C 2
TO DIR INFO CITE HAVA Ø796
MEXI SACU
AMUTTER
STATION TAKING ADVANTAGE OPPORTUNITY SEND NOEMAYR ON PLANE

CHARTERED BY BOHEMIA AND TIME MAG TO CARRY JAY MALLIN AND
CARLOS CASTANEDA TO SACU TO INTERVIEW FIDEL CASTRO AND POSSIBLY

ACCOMPANY CASTRO PARTY WHEN IT COMES TO HAVANA. PLANE ETD
HAVA Ø600 JAN 2.

END OF MESSAGE
RI COPY

FORM RICOPY
4-59 1389 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS ROUTING CETIN: 
Z
RI/Files
OS C SECRET
2 Jen 59
(5)
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
201-168881 Copy Pic

14-00000*
10) ER/DLD CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 201-32725
DATE 61 JAN 59 201-168881
CONFIDENTIAL ROUTING:
1 4
TO : DIRECTOR 2 5
3 6
REOL CECT RE Falia (charck one):
No C's Record Value. Destroy.
FROM SANTIAGO DE CUBA R1 file this copy as indicated
Krasch copy filed as indicated
ACTION: WH 6 RE of check one):
Signatre:
None required
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, FI/OPS, 15/02 Chif ROUTINE
IN 43223
TO PRITY HAVA INFO DIR CE SACU 317
RE: HAVA 0766 (IN 42971).

AFFIRMATIVE.

END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: QUERIED IF SACU WAS IN POSITION TO ARRANGE VAI VADA ENTRY INTO REBEL
TERRITORY AS IN PREVIOUS CASES. HQS WISHED TO SEND HIM ON MISSION SIMILAR TO THAT
TAKEN LAST MARCH.

FORM PREVIOUS
4-59 1389E EDITIONS

RI COPY

TRILED
GS COPY

RI/Files
ROUTHIS
3
Z RI/TY
2
R/FI
2 Jan 59
(5)
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
201-168881 Copy No.

14-00000
: DATE 104/LB/JJW/4/ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 1 201-163951
Ø1 JAN 59 SECRET 201 24325 ROUIING
: 1 4
TO :. DIRECTOR 2 5
3 6
RE Filing (check one):
JAN | 23 5725
FROM : HAVANA No CS Heerd Value. Destroy.
RECID CABLE SECT.
WH 6 MR. GRUNWELL, WH DIV! 'NOTIFIED 1730 1 JAN 59 R1 the this copy as indicated
Branch copy and as indicated
ACTION:
Signature: PRIORITY
INFO: S/C 2
None reagire P IN 43216

TO OPIM SACU INFO PRITY MEXI PRITY DIR CITE HAVA Ø784

VIEW STRONG RUMORS FIDEL CASTRO COMING HAVA, CANCELLING

NOEMAY DEPARTURE FOR SACU.

FOR HQS, MEXI: MEANTIME PLAN USE HIM LOCAL INTEL COLLECTION.

RELEASED Ø118502

FORM 1389 USE PREVIOUS END OF MSG
4-58 EDITIONS
RI COPY
CLUSSIFIED
2
RIAUS
RI/Files
SWH/3M
SECRET
/TY
1. Jan ST
201-168,881
Copy No.
(35)
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
! CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SEC RET
FII
201-20
DATE
TO
BI JAN 59
: DIRECTOR
FROM:
HAVANA
1
ACTION:
INFO
WH 6 (MR. EVANS, WH ISSUED TOSO COPY 2330 1 JAN
:
RE Fiding fcherk otw):
No Cs Preort Valur. Destroy.
RI file thoras nieurl
H Ladang it firck cre):
Marked
Signature:
Noue required
1
S/C 2
TO
PRITY MEXI
2
6
PRIORITY
INPO DIR
CITE
JAN 2 05 13.59
REC'D CABLE SECT.
IN 43248
HAVA $790
PLS ADVISE WIFE NOEMAYR HE SAFE AND NO NEED WORRY. HE
CONCERNED EXAGGERATED STORIES SUBMITTED BY WIRE SERVICES MAY
UNDULY UPSET HER.
:
END OF MESSAGE

FORM 1389 USE PREVIOUS
4-58 EDITIONS
RI COPY
CS COFT
Z
CLASSIFIED
RI/Files

WH/3M
DESTROY
/TY
2 Jun $9
201-168881
(25)
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
:

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.
DISPATCH
SECRET H-7302
TO: • Chief of Station, Fexico City HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.
000 X
201-32723
FROM: Chief, WHD DATE 13 Fe
59
SURLACY CS COPY RE: "43-3" (CHECK "X ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
Ο Harold R.
S MARTO NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ACTION REQUIRED 5 See below INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Cover Division has requested that the Station make a thorough assess

ment of Subject's notional cover in relation to its operational suitability

and report to Headquarters on the strength or weakness of the arrangement,

giving any recomandations deemed advisable to strengthen it. For guidance

the Station may consider such factors as the security consideration involved

and the ability of Subject to live his cover.

OLIVER G. GALBOND

6 February 1959
Distributiont

3- Mexico City
1 H/Mailroom
1 WH/3/Mexico
1- RI Minill

WH/3/Mexico/B.MERRELLings
D F3
490
UST: PREVIOUS EDITION
RELACES FORMS
51:28. 51-22A-AMOS
BIDVEDI
VECFIAED
CS COPY
Jet 32773
701-768881
7201-168 881
H.NNW 7302
PATE 13 FEB 59

201-168881
201-2773
CLASSIFICAIKIN
PAGE NO.

14-00000
201-14888
1407 DMCL/WS 5/26. AO. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 3
DATE 31 DEC 58 SECRET
ROUTING
4
1
2 5
TO DIRECTOR 3 6
-
NE FEL (Deck con):
JAN 1 1959
FROM HAVANA No CS Recard Value. Destroy.
Ritle this copy as indicated
Branch copy Aid as incre
RECD CABLE SECT.
ACTION: WH 6 Elveluck one):
Matad

None mouired
INFO CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS, S/C 2fillones d ROUTINE
-:

TO PRITY SACU INFO DIR
RE: DIR 06245 (OUT 57838).
1. SUBJECT REF ARRIVED HAVA EVENING 30 DEC.
CITE
IN 42971
HAVA 0766
2. FOR SACU: SUBJ IS VAIVADA. HQS WISHES SEND HIM TO FIDEL
CASTRO TERRITORY ON MISSION SIMILAR TO THAT UNDERTAKEN LAST MARCH.
IS SACU IN POSITION ARRANGE HIS ENTRY INTO REBEL TERRITORY AS IN
PREVIOUS CASES? IF NOT HAVA PROBABLY CAN ARRANGE THROUGH 26 JULY
CONTACTS HERE BUT PREFERS IT BE DONE THROUGH ESTABLISHED CHANNELS
SACU IF AT ALL POSSIBLE.
3. CABLE REPLY PRIORITY.
END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: *ADVISED NOEMAYR ENROUTE HAVA CMA FLT 565 ETA 30 DEC.
IFIED 1 Jan 59
Z
RI/Filen
WH/3M FORM Usz Pazvous 201-168881
4-58 EDITIONS
CO
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
S..E...C..R..ET... Copy No.

14-00000
CLASSICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
DISPATCH
SECRET/ABATU IDMW-7933

TO
Chief of Station, Mexico City HEADQUARTERS FRE NO.
INFO -201-32723
FROM: Chief, WID DATE
SUBJECT AVS 4
1959
Harold R. NOEMAYR (ps) RE-43-3 (CHECK ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
X NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ACTION REQUINED INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
Reply reference. BY QUALIFIED HQ. DES ONLY
REFERENCE(S)
HMS-7790, 19 June 1959
Please reply to referenced dispatch at your earliest convenience so

WH Division can start making plans for Subject's future assignment.
OLIVER G. GALBOND
3 August 1959
Distributions

3- Haxico City
1/WH/Mexico/Rybat Chrono
- Subject
سست نیم
WH/III/Mexico/E. I. SCALETTI:mpm
FORM
10-57 53
BIDVEDI
KECEIAED
LESS 11 18.
LISE PREVIOUS EDITION.
DEPLACES FORUS DESENSITIZED
51-28 51-254 AND $1.29
par ES 43-23
CLASSIFICATION
CONTINUED
201-168 881
X
7433
HAUG 59
PAGE NO

14-00000
Sent to RIDIAN..
23 Dec. 70
- HMMW-6430 10 June 58 201-168881
• 4MMW-6481 19 June. 58 201-168881
#Hmmw-6448 17 Junis8 201-16888
DIR 29606 I July 58. 201-168881
- Hmmw-6748 22. Aug. 58. 201.16 888
HAVA-766 31 Dec.58 201.16 1851
- HAVA. 784 1 Jan.59 201-16885L
"HAVA-790 LJen. 59 201168781
HAVA.796 2 Jan 59. 201-168881
SACU-317 2 Jan 59. 201-168571
HMMW-7302 13 Feb. 59 201-16881
"HRSW-1730 15 June 57. 201-1688
HMM-779.0 19 June 59 201-168881
- HMMW-7933 4 Aug. 59 501-168.881
HMMA-13726 14 Sepr. 59 201.16 8881
HMMA-14169 27 Nov. 59 201-16 8881
HMMA-14463 5 Feb.60 201-16888 /
- HMMW. 8499 16_Teb.60 201-168881
HMMA- 14701 22 Mar 60 201-16888L
- HMMA-14661 8 April 60 201-168881

14-00000

INFO
DISPATCH
Chief of Jess, JPASTI
ROM

CHIEF, VID
J/hain.
Administrative Fatters
SECRET
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: As indicstod

(A) UFCT-135, dtd 290ct60
(B) UFGT-150, atd 4kov60
PROCESSING

ACTI
LAPPEE PER CERE
INFO
ONLY QU
PEACCIPLES COCA
CAN CI
ABSTRACT
1. Please advics Farold R. FOPPAIR that the hospitalization
application forwarded via reference (a) is being processed, and the
affective inte of coverage is 27 Power 1960.
20. Please advico Charles R. PARZON that his U. 3. Savings Brads
will be retained in hondarters pending his return. The Fayroll office
handling PARZON Recounts has determined that this is a sore seauro
rethod of making sure he receives them in person, rather than coπάλες
the bonds in care of the party indicated in reference (B).

3. Flease advice LUM A that as a result of the Froficienty Test
he took while assigned locally, ho obtained a Proficiency Score of 87.
As the Finium Proficiency Seore for award of Proficiency Fey is 94, be to
not oligible for the award of Froficiency Pay.
مة
Forvarvisi uvίες, σoρατato cover is another envelope containing
copies of Travel Ordere far personnel currently assigned asli an! J-RIP.
5. Please advise Oliver H. CORBUSTOH that the annual preniva of
Ms Specifioi Dicenses policy in due 30 Lovenbar 1960. The Family Flen for
this policy in $10.00. Inaseach as a graes period of one (1) month is granted,
you may advise CORBOSTON to submit a check for the preedum amount to Headquarters
ssoon es possible.

END OF HESSAGE
ENCLOSURES
(A) IDZ 4, 9/8/e
(B) T/Os a/s par.4, 2/8/3
DISTRIBUTION:

Orig. 2- CUB, JMASE, w/pncia. a/s
CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED
25 av. 1960 AEC 1950
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGS-127
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
1-WH/4/Registry
1-WH/4/Personnel
OFFICE
: OFFICE SYMBOL CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
C
Јов. UHE STIEBOL
DAIL OFFICER
ORIGINATING
TYPIST
COORDINATI.
DATE
OFFICER'S NAME
WE/4/Sup. 25 Nov.60 RELEASING
(40)
EXT.

14-00000

WA

Mir Harold B. Novinays
Drac N's. Noonmayr:

Reference a made in your conirati wth the United States Govern
wrat, effer June 1957

Effentive 26 Nevember 1960 d contract is an moded by
anding therere the foliowing octauran
if
"Health lesurance You Are herein authorized to apply for
enrollment in a health insurance program for certain colerted
WEITZMAN arcer agental of this organization.
subject to all ine terms and conditions of that program
accepted, the organization is presently authorized to bear a
portion of the premium coat, you will bear the remainder
Your financial contribution will be efected either by payroll
deduction or by direct remittance at periodic intervals.to be
established by this organization."

All other terus and conditions of the contract remain in full force
and effect,
S-C-COR--T

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
БУ
Contracting Ofiser
26 hou. 601
201-168881
201
Centroref

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ROUTING
2
TO
COCOR
FROM
3
1ον 1217472 60
ACTION 9

INFO
fer ROUTINE
41651 او
: COP, COP, ADOP/A, S/C 2
ARCLE 454 1597

1. WASH KUCAGE FACED WITH INCREASING ACTIVITIES IN STUDENT

DER FIELDS: CONTINUATION AND PROGRESS AMRASP PROPCON ACTIVITIES

AND DEPENDENT OPS SUCH AS AMHOSE, AMPACA, TODD NEWSLETTER, CRUZADA

FOTO CUBANA, PRENSA LIBRE, ETCE TRAINING, INFILT AND SUPPORT
PROP TEMS CUBA; DEVELOPMENT PROP ACTIVITIES WITH NEW POLITICAL
E.TITIES E. G. ALIANZA, MRP PLUS ACTIVITIES IN LAWYER FIELD, BLACK
CPS, OP AIRDROPS CUBA, ETC.

2. IN ORDER BETTER XPLOIT OPERATIONAL POTENTIAL EXTANT CURRENT

DEVELOPMENT NEW OPS PARA I LOVE, MASK HAS NEED FOR

AL PERCCINEL. MASH KUCAGE SECTION COMPOSED GOUDEAUX, NOEMAYA
HAROD
... CORBUSTON. THEIR DUTIES IN ADDITION HANDLING KUCAGE

MATTERS INCLUDE LARGE VOLUME INTERNAL PAPERWORK AND ACCOUNTING, PLUS
ACICCE OTHER MASH OPS RECUIRING SPANISH LANGUAGE CAPABILITY.

3. QUEST HOS CONSIDER IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT MASH MINIMUM ONE
CAFE CFFICER, WITH SOME EXPERIENCE AND WORKING KNOWLEDGE OF SPANISH.
EXPECT HAVE SUBSEQUENT NEED FOR SECOND JUNIOR CASE OFFICER.

PM CASE OFFICER REQUIREMENTS TO SE SUBJECT SEPARATE CABLE.

END OF ESSACE

12 100.60
201-165881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHILTED
Coor No.

14-00000
NAME
TRAVEL ORDER
Harold R. Noemayr (P)

Washington, D.C.
OFFICIAL STATION
SECRET
IDY
PCS
INVITATIONAL
OFFICE PHONE
OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
Mi-A-353-61
Amend No. 1
SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
GRADE
Contract
YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE
Amended to authorize reimbursement 8.10 per mile for auto allowance as more
advantageous to the government.

Balance of order remains the same.
TRAVEL DURATION
BEGIN
END
TRAVEL DURATION
DOMESTIC
FER DIEM ALLOWANCE
FOREIGN
MAXIMUM
OTHER
(See below)
10
AUTOMOBILE
ALLOWANCE
CENTS PER AMI.
NOT TO EXCEED
COST BY COM-
MON CARRIER
CENTS PER MI.
AS MORE
.10 ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOVT.
ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS W!!! REASONS

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
NAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP
PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY
TRANSPORTATION REQUEST
CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
AUTHORIZATION
ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL
ACCOMPANY TRAVELER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS
ADVANCE RETURN
BIGNATURE
FORM 540 OBSOLETE
..
MPO. 8-40
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.

COORDINATION
TITLE & COMPONENT
SHIPMENT
NONTEMPORARY
STORAGE
SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED UNACCOMPANIED
LBS AND MODE LBS AND MODE

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED
YES
NO
DATE
ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

9
Nov
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.
WH-A-353-61
CHARGE COST CENTER NO.
DATE
1535-5000-0021
SIGNATURE OF && F OFFICED
Joseph Bakix
Joseph F. Baker
REQUESTING OFFICIAL

COMPONENT
William E. Eisemann
C/WH/L/Support
SIGNATURE DATE
Nov
Ellofchied for
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

COMPONENT
Jacob D. Esterline
C/W/

SIGNATURE DATE
Jesse Strangler 9 nov 60
SECRET
201-16781
(2-48)

14-00000
AKA
L
NAME
TRAVEL ORDER WORK CET
1DY
PCS
INVITATIONAL
OFFICE TRAVEL ORCIER NO.
Amend.
353
SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER A2
crade
rold & Neem aufermons (P)
Har
OFFICIAL STAZION Contrast
Jash.
GIFLE PHOKE
YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Amend to auth. reimbursement 104 per
auth alles not
m
advantageon to government.

Balance ordering the
TRAVEL DURATION
BEGIA
END
PER DIEM ALLOWANCE
DOMESTIC
FOREIGN
$
MAXIMUM
OTHER
(See below)

CENTS PER
NOT TO EXCEED
COST BY CO4
MON CARRIER
AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
CENTS PER IL
AS KORE
ADVANTACEDUS
TO GOVT.

ALLOTIANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
NAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP
ACCOMPANY TRAVELER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS
ADVANCE RETURN

COORDINATION
SIGNATURE TITLE & COMPONENT

PORM 5408

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY
TRANSPORTATION REQUEST
CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
SHIPMENT AUTHORIZATION
ESTAMPES B09
NONTEMPORARY
STORAGE
CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.
SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED
EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
ACCOMPANIED UNACCOMPANIED
LBS AND MODE LBS AND MODE

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED DATE SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER
ACCOUNTING DUE DATE
YES
NO

REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE TYPED NAME AND TITLE
COMPONENT
Phot
SIGNATURE DATE
3 Nov 0
AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
COMPONENT
SIGNATURE
DATE

14-00000
TO
THROUGH:
FROM
INDIVIDUAL (Pseudonym)
:
: FD/CLTAR/SAAS
WH/B&F
WH/3/Moxico
Harold R. NOEMAYR

SECRET
PERFORMANCE REPORT
FOR CONTRACT PERSONNEL
PROJECT PERIOD
LIEDGE 30 Oct. - 27 Nov. 1960
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING METHOD OF PAYMENT
Deposit to bank account
on file in Finence Division

FACTORS AFFECTING AMOUNT DUE

LEAVE TAKEN DURING PERIOD (Il contract provides leave entitlement)
CERTIFICATION
DATE
I CERTIFY THAT FOR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIVIDUAL HAS PERFORMED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF HIS CONTRACT AND IS ENTITLED TO PAYMENT.

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL
Ned P. Holman, AC/WH/3

FORM 433
USE PREVIOUS EDITION,
(30)
8-58
SECRET

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
DISPATCH
DE CRET
TO
UFGT 135
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.
Chief, WHD

FROM
Chief of Base, ASH

JMNET/Admin/WSLUGGAGE
Hospitalization Insurance, Harold R.
NOSHAYR
DATE
OCT 29 1950
RE: 43.3-(CHECK "X" ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEX.ING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY
ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCES
UFGS-66
Attached herewith is the hospitalization applica

tion on Harold R. NOEMAYR. Subject requests that

premiums for this insurance be automatically deducted

from his salary. we would appreciate being advised of

subject's policy number and the effective date of the

coverage.

Stephen M. Westing
Stanley. westran
Attachment: Hospitalization Appl. ASA

27 October 1960

Distribution:
3 Headquarters w/att
2 Files w/o att..
FORM
10-57 53
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
PEPLACES FORMS
51-28, 51-25A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE SASOLETE.
CLASSIFICATION
SECR ET

Appl. le des
B. 11/3/60-
feed for solicy ko
Y date of coverage
Cedoned fer
UFGS-127
501-168181
UFGT 135
PAGE NO
CONTINUED

14-00000
10
INFO.
DISPATCH
Chief of Base, JHASH
HOM
: Chief, Mision
SUBJECT Harold R. FOEMAYR

ACTION REQUIRED REFEREΝΟΣΣ
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PRO
POSED
WH/3/MEXI
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARPES FOSSDERING
NO INCETING REQUIRED
GRET QUA 20
HEADQUARTERS DESE
CAN ILECERCETING
ABSTRACT
MICROFIRM
ACCO
PLISHED

1. It is requested that the attached application for Health Insurance be
given to Earold R. NOSHAYR for completion. MOEMAYR retain the covering
mamoraning which outlines his coverage. The completed forms should be returned
to Headquarters for processing. The premiwns will be deducted from HORMAYR 3
salary. Headquarters will notify NOEMAYR when his policy is in effect.

2. Please explain to HORMAYR that this plan covers basically two types
of health insurance. 1: the normal hospitalisation explained in paragraph 3
of the attachment which includes in and out-patient care, surgery and maternity.
The allowable expenses covered under this section are imediately reimbursable
within the limits of the plan. 28 the major medical benefit plan described in
paragraph k covers miscellaneous medical expenses not normally commected with
hospitalization such as doctors office visits, doctors' home visits, prescrip-
tions, injections and medications given by doctors, E-raya and other laboratory
wrk done in connection with diagnosis or treatment, etc. The insured pays up
to $100 of such allowable expenses under this category for each member of his
fasdly. expenses exceed this $100 for any person during the calendar year,
then the policy will pay for 80% of their additional expenses. In connection
with this phase of the plan, it is suggested that HORMAYR be advised to have
ننهم من eep a detailed record of all stical capouses incuried by each
newber of the family.

3. HOTMAYR should be advised that under the hospitalization section of
the plan, up to $75.00 can be reisbursed for surgical fess in connection with
a tonsilectomy, whether the tonsilectomy is performed in a hospital or in the
surgeon's offices.

EAD OF DISPATCH

Distributions
3- HASH
CROSS REFERENCE TO
1 Subj. 201
1-WH/3/Nexi Chrono
Registry
CLASSIIT KAIJUN
SECRET
OF HOZ
lexico
OFFICE SYMBOL
WHA'S
UPPRZ STIERA
CALID
CZahrung
DATE TYPED
Oct. 1960
CATE DISPATCHED
12 OCT 1960
DISPATCH SYMBOL ARD NUMBER
UFGS-66
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-168881
ORIGINATING
ra
CAFE/3 Mexi
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME
2555
DATE
201-16881
L
RELEASING
GPZINSSINATLINE

14-00000
ATH
SPECIFY Ar or Sea Pouch)
TO
OFFICIAL DISPATCH
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
Chief of Station, Hexico City
FROM: Chief, WHD
SUBIECT
{
Doperational
GENERAL
SPECIFIC - Harold R. NOSHAYR

ACTION REQUESTED: Sign and Return Contract
DISPATCH ΝΟ.
H-6481
201-32723
19 JUN 1958
DATE

Forwarded herewith is an original and three copies of an amendment
to Subject's contract. Please bave Subject sign these copies and have
them properly witnessed and signed by the Chief of station as contracting
officer. Please return all but one copy to Headquarters

16 June 1958
Attachment:
As described above.

Distribution:
3- Mexico City
1-WH/Failroom
1-WH/3/Nexico/Chrono
RI
WE/III/Mexice/LSulc:mom

VIOVEDI
frs.
Releasing hou
J.C. KING, C/WHD
FORM NO. 51-29
J1949 מע

CKING
CHIEF, WHD
Coordinating officer)

3.
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
(Authenticating of)
19 JLN58
R. N.DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
201-168881
201-32773

14-00000
;
:
TO
: FD/OLTAB/SAAS
THROUGH: WE/3/Bendso
FROM : WE/3/Bendso

SECRET
FERFORMANCE REPORT
FOR CONTRACT PERSONNEL

INDIVIDUAL (Pseudonym)
Harold R. FORMAYR
PROJECT PERIOD
LIEDGE 2 Ost. - 29 Oct, 1960
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING METHOD OF PAYMENT
Depoads to berk account
on file in Finance Division

FACTORS AFFECTING AMOUNT DUE

LEAVE TAKEN DURING PERIOD (If contract provides leave entitlement)

DATE
PC.
CERTIFICATION
1 CERTIFY THAT FOR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIVIDUAL MAS PERFORMED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF HIS CONTRACT AND IS ENTITLED TO PAYMENT.

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL
Kad P. Holson, AC//3

FORM 433
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
201-168881
(30)
0-38
SECRET

14-00000
NAME
TRAVEL ORDER WORK SHEET
TOY
PCS
INVITATIONAL

Harold & RA Noemayer (P)

OFFICIAL STATION
Washington, DC.
EOO
OFFICE TRAFLL ORDER SO.
353
SERVICE TRAVEL ORDET MO..
CRADE
areer
Acent

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRATEL OR
CHANCE OP OFFICIAL STATION, IP SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

•Wash. to AreNIA for Tox and
return.
Travel: Por
Purpose to assist Kent in Propaganda
Travel to
BEIN
TRAVEL DURATION
END
1 Sept. 31
workshop.
PER DIEM ALLOWANCE
DOMESTIC
FOREIGN
OTHER
(Srs below)
104
AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
CENTS PEP W
NOT TO EXCEED
COST BY CO
MON CARPIER
TS PER LA.
MORE
ZOVANTAGEOUS
12 COVIT.

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS
Auth. reimbure nent auto expense for operationde
use.

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
NAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS
ADVANCE RETURN

COORDINATION
SIGNATURE TITLE & COMPONENT

Hinkle, Xo (Phone)
50/W/1/7/1/00
Wella
I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
OBLIGATION REFERENCE MI
::
CHARGE COST CENTER NOLL
DATE
SIGNRATURE OF B & F OFFICER

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
REQUESTING OFFICIAL
SIGNATURE COMPONENT
Philliper (Phone) DATE

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
TYPED MAME AND TITLE COMPONENT

SIGNATURE DATE

(18-48)

14-00000
:

TRAVEL ORDER
NAME
Harold R. Nocmaver (P)
OFFICIAL STATION
Washington, D. C.

SECRET
TOY
PCS
INVITATIONAL
OFFICE PHONE
OFFICE TRAVEL CHIER NO.
εν
Wil-A-353-62
SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER &2.
GRADE
Career Agent
YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOK OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Washington, D. C. to Area IIa for TDY and return.

MODE: POV

PURPOSE: Operational Mission
TRAVEL DURATION
FER DIEM ALLOWANCE AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
BEGIN END DOMESTIC FOREIGN