104-10107-10008 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
11 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION : Division Security Officer

FROM : (Thomas L. Briggs)
                                        SE/X/LA

SUBJECT : Appearance As Witness In Behalf of the
                                        United States Government

REFERENCE : USA V. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al. (76-371-CR-CA)

1. During the period of my employment as a Special Agent at the Drug Enforcement Administration (10-7 Jan 1977), I conducted an
interview of Gerald Patrick Hemming (DPOB 1 March 1937, at Los Angeles,
California) on 23 May 1975 at DEA Headquarters in Washington, D.C.
My report concerning that interview has become part of the case file
in USA v. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al., Case Number 76-371-CR-CA,
Southern District of Florida, Miami, Florida.

2. Upon my entrance on duty in SE Division on 5 January 1977,
I orally informed the Division Security Officer, Billy Hix, about
the information in paragraph 1 above. Mr. Hix asked me to submit
the information in writing as soon as I was settled in the Division.
On 7 January 1977, however Special Agent Robert Fredericks
telephonically contacted Hope Mason DC/SE/X/LA, and told her that
the United States Attornery, Southern District of Florida, had
requested that I appear at the U.S. Courthouse, Miami, Florida on
10 January 1977 to confer with the Assistant United States Attorney,
Karen L. Atkinson, regarding my appearance as a witness in behalf of the
U.S. Government in the trial of Gerald P. Hemming.

3. During the afternoon of 7 January 1977 I conferred with Mr. Hix
who advised me to contact the Office of the General Counsel. I talked
to Mr. Edmund Cohen who advised me to get in touch with the Office of
Security, External Activities Branch (OS/EAB). I completed an
Outside Activity Approval Request (Form 879), obtained the concurrence
of DC/SE, Mr. John Stein, and submitted the Form 879 to OS/EAB.
OS/EAB sent me to Central Cover Staff (Mr. Blandford) and then to the
Office of the General Counsel. After discussions with Mr. Cohen, I called

S/A Fredericks in Miami at Mr. Cohen's suggestion. S/A Fredericks was
not available. Mr. Cohen then advised me to return to my office and
he would contact me with further instructions. Mr. Cohen retained
the Form 879. Subsequently, Mr. Cohen advised me that I should travel
to Miami as requested and that CIA would reimburse me for expenses
connected with my activities in behalf of the U.S. Government. He
further advised me that being in an overt cover status I should state,
if asked under oath, that I am currently a CIA employee.

4. On 10 January 1977 I traveled to Miami where I met and
conferred with AUSA Karen Atkinson and DEA S/A Robert Fredericks.
They informed me that Gerald P. Hemming's case had been severed and
his trial would not begin on 11 January. AUSA Atkinson told me she
wanted me as a rebuttal witness if Gerald P. Hemming presented the
defense that he had been working at the direction of DEA. She said
they would not call me until and unless that defense was presented.
She also said that she felt that any attempt to question me concerning
my current place of employment was irrelevent and she would object to
any such line of questioning. She said she would only ask me where
I was employed at the time I interviewed Hemming. I returned to
Washington D.C. sailic Guy.

Distribution:
1 CCS
1 OS
1 OGC

(Thomas L. Briggs)

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FROM:
Edmund Cohen
Assistant General Counsel
SUBJECT:
U.S. v. Hemming
16 January 1978

1. On 22 November 1977 the undersigned accompanied by Messrs. (Thomas
Briggs) Gary Mattocks and Robert Barteaux, travelled to Miami to confer with
Judge Hoeveler, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas M. Sherouse, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida, about subject case. Messrs.(Briggs and
Mattocks had dealt with Mr. Hemming while they were employed by the Drug
Enforcement Administration and Mr. Sherouse wanted them available as rebuttal
witnesses. Mr. Barteaux also was sought as a possible rebuttal witness to describe
the Agency's relationship with Mr. Hemming in the event that Hemming raised a
CIA defense.

2. On 23 November Mr. Briggs, Mr. Barteaux and the undersigned met in
chambers with Judge Hoeveler, Mr. Sherouse, Mr. Roger Howard, law clerk to
Judge Hoeveler, and Mr. Ted Sakowitz, Public Defender for the Southern District
of Florida. Mr. Sherouse decided that Mr. Mattocks would not be required to
testify and he did not attend the meeting. The Judge initially expressed some reluc-
tance to have an ex parte conference because Mr. Hemming had assumed primary
responsibility for his own defense with only limited assistance from the Public
Defender. The Judge insisted that a transcript of the meeting be made but he
promised that the transcript would be sealed and, in fact, would not be transcribed.

3. The undersigned indicated that the Agency had no interest in the outcome
of the case and interposed no objection to the introduction of any relevant information.
Our sole concern was to protect Mr. Briggs and his relationship with CIA both before
and after his DEA employment. The Judge was informed that Mr Briggs sole con-
nection with Hemming was on 23 May 1975 and that he had no contact with Hemming
during any period of Agency employment. The national security consequences of
exposure of Mr? Briggsas as well as the career consequences were outlined. In addition,
the Judge was informed that Mr. Barteaux was prepared to testify as an overt Agency
employee about any relationship between Hemming and CIA.
SECRET
E. 2.IMPDET CL BY035714

4. Judge Hoeveler asked Mr. Sakowitz to cross-examine Mr. Briggs to
determine whether he had any information which might be relevant to Hemming's
defense. Mr. Sakowitz stated that although he was aware that Mr. Hemming wished
to call Mr.(Briggsa a witness, he was not fully informed of all aspects of the case
and, therefore, reluctant to question Mr. Briggs Thereupon, Judge Hoeveler,
swore in Mr. Briggs) and proceeded to ask him a series of questions to determine
whether Mr. Briggs interaction with Mr. Hemming had been in any way connected
with his CIA employment. At the conclusion of this examination the Judge gave
Mr. Sakowitz a second opportunity to question Mr. Briggs) and when Mr. Sakowitz
again declined, he stated that in light of the national security consequences which
had been brought to his attention he was not inclined to permit questions relating
to Mr. (Briggs) CIA employment.

5. At the conclusion of the conference in chambers, but before the jury was
admitted into the courtroom, Mr. Sherouse informed Mr. Hemming that Mr. Briggs)
was available as a witness. When the trial proceeded Mr. Hemming concluded
his defense without calling Mr Briggs). Mr. Sherouse, however, did call Mr.
Briggs)as a rebuttal witness. On cross-examination Mr. Hemming asked Mr. Briggs)
whether he was with CIA. Mr. Sherouse promptly objected to the question, the
Judge sustained the objection and Mr. Hemming went on to the next question. The
trial concluded soon afterwards without Mr. Barteaux being called as a witness.
It was subsequently learned that Mr. Hemming was found guilty as charged.

Edmund Cohen
EC: jz
Distribution:
Original / LITIGATION-CRIMINAL, Hemming Gerald P.
1 EC Signer
1 Chrono
SECTET

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST
COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

TO : DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH DATE
(Staff, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)
THRU: SZ Division brearity Officer

NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print or COMPONENT ROOM NO. AND BLDG. PHONE
type)
FROM:
05229

1. FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS
CONCERNED. DATES. LOCALE, ETC. (Refer to HR 10-7 before completing)
7 January 1977
that she had been
she ha
to atte
for pessible appear on

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING EMPLOYEE

2. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS
MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:
I was a CLA employee from
(Jan77).

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF. DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD
DATE: CONCUR: DATE SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL
FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED)
FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION
FORM OTO USE PREVIOUS CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

1.mo Sovery- desoves sheruse call 2 Q Doc
- DCD contacts of on Dray Leto de
Bob Borteaus ti be ready to testify
Imp Processy pent

QMFR Q Doc
9/6: spoke up Tom sherouse 305 350 5449
Tuval 25 Oct.

10/2: liked of Sharouse stelt is scheduled for
25 Oct-
20 Oct This Cal Call will all be on 21Oct
to see where stand

10/25: spoke W/ She Hemy que is
#8
in Judges calander

sanchet is Cats Next who atated
Hemmy - will be owned lawyer

11/15 repose of Shermue sch for 16 NOV areedi as
Bartan, Bay, Maddox rehoubled case hotes for late AM
but to call on weith to cheilk

11/15 Meet of Mo 5. Briggs Maddox, Barterx raven Shend
statent, ck on why left apy & why retuned, whet doing.
sales weed of Ma & Bautem to 000 (Naul) Vien
re mynta exprosime
2
a public stopsine in Bryer) Modderx & briefo
reven of Bantean all recordion Hemmy.
resere for tre EA. 195 no 120ve 9 ilaun 110

11/17 - Called M - for som
3/

Rockville Md 20850
(340 8186) 06

1. gimplrcover
a Jan 69 - May 74 CIA - Army Armi- Army
"onepen elenti
2.My 74-Jan 77 DEA
3. Jan 77 - No comer State suer

2. only antrit of Hemas-
23 May 15

3. Heny - to see (nemi-
Snen tabl see Tom-

4. NOW SN-tayed recentments
What2 sav KGM moty in tous name
from 50 - resynad - Law enfocent
cit cant - no antad, recinto

US vs Hemming
(Gerald P. Hemming)
Case No 76-71-Cr-CA
S.D of fla.
Judge Hoeveler

P.O. Bldg & ct House 300 NE. First Ave Miami Flonda
Mezzanine floor 350-4136 Istave 3 St

Thomas M. Sherouse Ast US Attorney (305) 350 5449 of 4471
Sec. Mary Jones 300 Ainsley Bldg hm 856 2295

Bary Maddox
Templ

CIA- 69-73 - Any Cine
DEA Aug 73 20 Feb 77 (comm over)
CID 27. Feb 77 - open 5-6 why then
2

State Gover Tuhan gas caster people Questions
Later than Dec 76 cald of Maddox
none since tok of CA
no combad before DEA
-
never gesond inted aly found DEA ants

3. red of Hemmy met moder sner je purchase I navethes
Im Miame and ,hay, antired ben
a) witund siching sad

-: Oct 25 2whtoul
Hemny
-
1) Jan 62 suhutter agpie penal -
on 21 June 62 ahnet No porous aval for en in Gay

2) Rends de ut effed he ever inplayed in any candy on
yed as aput.
but needs do shen Hemy has falaly cland ansce
wl ajury or severl cam sne 1960

3. In od 60 3 sumy in eing 11.61, / Bm 1967, 3m 1978
day after 2.3 Ay 70
on the Run Hey can fund to volite
will which he thy my be of vahe & was the

Drys

Don sont juyple whis operly need if any U.S
infp to vonks.

3-re the Doe it be able hely - page ther
wald- en belly why we would endle
peple to

Demy was fond fuck
