14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)

SECURITY APPROVAL

DATE: 29 November 1961

YOUR REFERENCE: 04515
CASE NO.: 194081

TO: Director of Personnel

FROM: Director of Security

SUBJECT: MAKSYMIEC, Myroslaw Andrew

1. This is to inform you of security approval of the subject person as follows:

    ✅ Subject has been approved for the appointment specified in your request under the provisions of Regulations 10-210 and 20-730 including access to classified information through Top Secret as required in the performance of his duties.
    ☐ Subject has been approved for appointment under the authority of Paragraph 4(d) of Regulation 10-210, and under Regulation 20-730 including access to classified information through Top Secret as required in the performance of his duties.

2. Unless arrangements are made within 60 days for entrance on duty within 120 days, this approval becomes invalid.

3. As part of the entrance on duty processing:

   ☐ A personal interview in the Office of Security must be arranged.
    ✅ A personal interview is not necessary.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

W.A. Osborne
Chief, Personnel Security Division

FORM NO. 1173
MAR 57
REPLACES FORM 38-101
WHICH IS OBSOLETE

CONFIDENTIAL (6)
---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)

NOTIFICATION OF SECURITY ACTION

DATE : 26 July 61

YOUR REFERENCE: 01515

CASE NO. : 194081

TO : Director of Personnel

FROM : Director of Security

SUBJECT : MAKSYMIEC, Myroslaw Andrew

This is to inform you that security approval is granted for the employment of Subject as follows:

☐ Provisional approval is granted upon the condition that Subject:
	a. not have access to classified material or information
	b. not have access to secure areas
	c. not be issued a building badge or Agency credential
	d. not be assigned to any unclassified duties other than contained in request
	e. Security processing to effect security clearance for access to classified information is continuing. Your office will be advised upon completion of this action.

✅ Approval for access to classified information through SECRET under the provisions of Regulations 10.210 and 20.730.

Upon successful completion of a personal interview in the Office of Security after Subject reaches age 18, she may be approved for access to classified information through TOP SECRET. Your office will be advised upon completion of this action.

Officials of the employing office should be advised of this security limitation and should be instructed to supply supervisors with advice as to the limitation so as to insure continued compliance.

✅ Subject may be invited to Washington for further processing but is not to receive classified material or information.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY
W.A. OSBORNE
Chief, Personnel Security Division

FORM 1337
1-58 REPLACES FORM 38-106
WHICH MAY BE USED

CONFIDENTIAL (10)
---