14-00000
104-10131-10014
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION : Mrs. Dorothy Turner
Room 5E03

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Operational Support)

SUBJECT : (SAFLEY, Harold F.)(A)
#73036
07

1. This is to advise that a CIA Identification Card will be
issued in the above captioned alias to an employee of TFW. You
are requested to establish an indices card in the above alias in
order that the Office of Personnel will be in a position to ack-
nowledge any inquiries that might be received concerning the Subject.

2. Upon receipt of any inquiry, you are further requested
to promptly acknowledge Agency employment for such individual and
then to advise the Chief, Cover Support Section of the Office of
Security, extension 6280 or 7380 or in the latters absence, Mr.
George Ladner, TFW/Security, extension 6055.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Victor White

CC: 00/C
KUHNKE/efb
6 November 1962
PENDING M/R: See TFW memorandum dated 5 November 1962 which was con-
curred in by Moorhouse of CCS with the understanding that I would advise
Mr. Bannerman of the action taken and obtain his approval upon the latters
return on or about 9 November 1962. An exception was made in this case
to the general rule that CIA identification in alias will not be issued
to (State Department) integree integrees. The exception was granted because of
the Subject's position and long experience in matters of this nature
and due to the fact that it will be strictly controlled and limited to
assignment which will be directly by Mr. Harvey.

Ervan E. Kuhnke, Jr.
EGRETE

FILE:
SECRET
(When Filled in)
73086

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)
SWENSON, Harold F.
016229

DATE PREPARED
24 October 1962

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REASSIGNMENT MONTH DAY YEAR
REGULAR
6. FUNDS V TO V V TO CF 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE- 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
ABLE Office of Personnel)
CF TO V X CF TO CF
3132-1000-1000

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDP
Task Force W
Office of the Chief Washington, D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
ATTACHE, POL OFF
OPS OFF (D BR CH) (D) 0663
FSR

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
GS (15) 0136.01 15 (2) $ 12,445
15,045

18. REMARKS
From: DDP/WH, Br. 2, Buenosaires, Argentina, #0084

CONCURRENCE Date 29 OCT 1962
Security Approval has been granted for
the use contro
by this request
Chiel, Porbonnel SevDivision

1 cy Security

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED
OFFICER
LOUIS W. ARMSTRONG, C/TFM/Pers.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20, EMPLOY. 21. OFFICE CODING 22.STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. HDOTRS. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
CODE CODE CODE CODE CODE

NUMERIC ALPHABETIC MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33.SECURITY 34. SEX
REO. NO.
MO. DA. YR. TYPE MO. DA. YR.

1 CSC
2- FICA
3- NONE CODE EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGL!/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
CODE CODE

1 10 NONE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. CAR/RESV O WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE
CODE
2 5 PT. PROV/TEMP 1 YES

3 10 PT.

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA STATE TAX DATA
CODE CODE

10 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1 FORM EXECUTED NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE
EXEMP.
1- NO BREAK IN SERVICE CODE 1 YES 1 YES
2 BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS) 2 NO 2 NO

3 BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS)

44. 45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. O.P. APPROVAL
DATE APPROVED
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
FORM OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION
4-62 1152 AND FORM 1152A.

SECRET
doc.c
-A
+
