1400000
104-10072-10228 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DULACI
(WHEN FILLED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
PRIOR TO FILING
TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheat, unless it records significant action taken or comments requir-ing preservation.

U ille no. and title shown are not proper, Insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.
PROPER FILE NO.
FROM: RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

DATE
ROOM
OFFICERS
INITIAL

1. WH/COG/REG. RYBAT/SECRET
2.
3. WHERR U/skalladed
4. WH/COG/CICS E. SCOCCIN BT
5. PLE
6. RYBAT/SECRET
7.
The foll
auber
8.
11.
12.
13.
14-00000
FROM: RW/ TO: ALL ADDRESSEES FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE COMMENTS

TO: ROOM DATE OFFICERS INITIAL

1. WH/COG/REG. RYBAT/SECRET
2.
3.
4. WINElek Uls tallade
5.
6. RYBAT/SECRET
7.
8.
11.
15
16.
17
TRACE
REQUEST
ABSTRAT
FILE TITLE FILE NUMBER IPRIMARY CODE)

DATE MICROVILVED DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER UNDA 03263

SECRET 1401

14-00000

TO Chief, SAS
INFO Chief of Base, Norida
Chief of Station, WAVE; Chief, WHD
CLASSIFICATION SE CRET
PROCESSING
RO Action
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESA
CAN JUDGE INDERING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT Contact Report/ LITAMIL-901

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

PERUMEN Attached, for addresses, are copies of Subject contact reports dated 11 May, 14 May, and 15 May 1963.

Willard C CURTIS
Willard C. CURTIS

Attachements As stated above

Distributions
1 - C/SAS, w/att
2 - C/WHD, w/att
132 - COS, WAVE, w/att
2 - COB, Merida, w/att HME
3- Files
INDEX X 56-6-105/3

CS COPY DATE TYPED 21 May 1963 DATE DISPATCHED

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CROSS REFERENCE TO HMMA 214033

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION SE CRET P-6079

ACCOM
PLISHED
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTION

14-00000 LITAMIL- On the night of 10 May 63, I met LITAMIL-9 usual wondervous point and we droe to outlying district of uity where debriefing took place. NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTED.

b02120-2245, 222 LITAMII-9 reported as follows:
uban 0-2 Mexico, told 1-9 that he had boon with Doloreal RORA Cepeda and that DE LAVORA Galked for 1-9. 19, of course, will take advantage of VEGA remark to make con-with DE LA MORA. (1-9) commented that fast VEGA was with DE LA MORA is interesting. It will be recalled that "Conchit a" FERNANDEZ told (1-9) to be careful with DE LA MORA Because the is a contact of CLERGE Fabra, Cuban G-2 type.

Koported that on 94May 53. while hear the dine Diana at XXX 27725 04-954249
10:30, he saw Ramon NORAS Casado waiting for someone BIOBAS eaw (L-9) and waved at him. (This was KURARK meeting) (L-Rahmmented that SINOBAS won sefinitely that SINOBAS was definitely waiting to make a contact with someone. Erancicco IZ Alberdi, Srarish/Cuban, who formarly tended the cate at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, returned to Noxico or 10 May 63, this time assigned to the Embassy as "Auxiliar de Segurda Cla-

(LIPIRE Airlists how MAIZ and his wife returned via Gubara on 10 May 63). (1-9)erid 1-9 arid that MAIZ' wife is suffering from cancer, that she was operated on in Habana but there is no hope:

2752 6 242 201-934249 L-9 reported that on 9 May 63, Ramon Lobas Casado, Cuban Charge, met with students (about 6) from Chapingo The meeting took place at 1700 at the Erhasey

17422 Portieles 201-30605) Foo. MAI told L-9 that EXXXX Hector CALLO Portieles. Cuban Charge in Bolivia, went back to Habana recently for what he thought was short stay i.e. two weeks, but he is still there. GALLO was assigned to study "instruccion politica y revolucionaria"
201-332665 6. MAI also told 9 that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, formerly in

Mexico received a scholarship. It is not known what kind for where.
that Heberto JORRIN was expected to return to Mexico on 13 Hay 63. I said that Antonio CARCIA Lara was expected to return to Mexico shortly. SECRET P-60791

14-00000% SECRET
said that he had the Auty (security) all day Saturday, Hay 63. 1-9 waid that Jose LLAGOSTERA is taking the day off and will not return until about 2200 this evening, told 2-9 to report any similar info particularly re wharly re Aruando SARDIFAS and others who live at the Embassy.

وس) 10
MAZZ told that Eusebio AZCUE was expected back in a week or co. MAIZ said that his wife would return after him. Be added that Sra de AZCUE is anxious to return to Mex100.
2009rinally 1-9 finally identified JonCATHANDEZ Roa as the person who in working with Buenaventura REYES Acosta and Ramon SORES

7 reported this peer tously) (9) ani anid he asked FERNANDEZ 1 he was related to the Foreign Minister and FERNANDEZ didn't say yes or no. (1-9) believes that he might be bodiase ho doan't soen very sharp and yet he's hanging around with BIOBAS and BHENAVENTURA. FERNANDEZ fold (17) who asked him about his re-lationship with ROA, that if he was related to RCA it was a distant relationship.

11 Coty BOLORZANO, sister in law of Gral. Lagaro CARDENAS 18 scheduled to leave for Habana on 13 May 63.

12.9 said he attend a meeting at the Academia Mexicana de Derecho Internacional on 8 May 63 and the Mexican Amb to Israel spoke re non-intervention and autodeterminación. (1-9) anid the speech was typical of Mexican govt policy re Cuba.

13. daid that he saw Rafael MERUZA PEDROSA Perez and Antonio AERUZA Bon At the Embassy on 9 Nay 63. THEXXXXNX They were in session with Ramon SINORAS. PEDROSA, the mulatto type, told L-9 at the inaugural session of the Microonda Seminar that "it was necessary for him to make a lot of contacts in Mexico". It was he who also

told (1-9) that he was in contact with Raul ROA, 1.e. "Estoy en contact con ROA". L-9) said that on 9 May at the Embassy, PEDROZA was sick, 1.e. male green, bad breath etc. I told (19) to make contact with PEDROZA and ARRUZA if p ssible and size them up. He said it would be difficult because he has no reason to see thom. He merely attended the inaugural ceesion of the Seminar. however, did iientify both men from LIERODE "take which I showed 15Nhim on this date. SECRET

RD SUBMITTE

14-00000
MONIM, according to (Ir wrgosted that a 1tr be written to her asking her to com budary at which ting the Có could interview her. He said that was told at the tabassy that it would take about a gopτι plearance eto, that she had to be investigated. that Dabassy request she report for interview would appaer so so past this investigation.

19. 1-9 brought a contract to the beeting re his brother's ca Nest16. He pointed out that the contest was signed on 7 ho was not present, kad
And he left for Habana on 4 March. Becnizée ho home did not appear in the MENEE contract and he was unhappy tha thie had to be. I-9, however, diplomatically and politely pointed but that he want to bring this to my attention to show that this hed been a sacrifice on his part, 1.6. his travel to Habana on over dehbld. I asked 2-9 whether this meant anything to him in dollars and scents and he daid it did not. He said the only thing was that if his name appeared as the Administratorof the Ompany when the contract was signed with (Nestle) it would give him a felling of acco plishment and security re his future relationship with the company.

16. 1-9 9 identified the following from LIERODE pho tous

Emigas TGA мо 201 Antonio ARRUZA Non mo tol
RafaelPEDROZA Pereg
17. L-7 reported that the Gabing FERNANDEZ who was Atended the Cuban Embassy coctail on 19 Apr 63, Cuban woman and has been to Cuba several tine L-9 said that.. TEXNEZΗ FERNANDEZ has a home near Acapulco, where Eusebio ASSUR has stayed on occasions. SECRET FILE: LIE-9

BOF1535 IS POSTDATAINABLE
ROM APERTANDARD SUBMITTED

14-00000

Sábado da guardia todo el Jomingo con ginobas
Xama. 188 13 g.n. "Lon Vivoa rou Coyoacan

Jorrin probablomante
Babajador
Ros-Babajeda
Coty Solórzano Lanos 13
logan Hiercoles familis Comes Abascal etc,
Mercolon 8 Academia Mex. an Derecho Internacional

TION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

14-00000

Embajada americana Jusq Urta. Morin, solicito visn.

M. Dolores de la Mora-Vega
Sinobas, Jueves a las 10.30
A.m. junto cine Diana
Llegó Maiz hoy Viernes 10. adscripto a la Emb. Mex. auxiliar de segunda clase.
Sinoban, Jueves a las 5 pom recibió estudiantes Chapin-
Gallo, estudiando en Habanm "instrucción política y re-volucionaria". creyó que estaría en Cuba solo 15 día
Rogelio, becado 8
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

14-00000
2.
On 19 May 63, I was LITANIAt the usual vacle Vous point and we drove to outlying district of the town, more we held meeting. NOR ECURITY PROBLEMS HOP.D. Timer 2236-

(LITA MIL-9) provided the following informa

Prancisco ΠΑΙΖ Α told th Emre FARIAS, forror mpotaire baid at the Cuban Embassy, and now employed by the PORTUONDOS Oriente (And Jose PORTUGENDO) 10 poing start to Kozinn Asi
She is expected to arrive from one day to the next. According to MAIZ, FARIAS was "sacking in" with anybody who came along, and has even become friendly with counteryrevs.
KAIZ said the vion of the above, FARIAS in being "bounced" Cubane plan to conduct a full body search of FAR LAS when she, leaved Cuba, 1.6. WDMEX "en cueros". I-9 pointed out that FARIAS 19 a Mexican and if it true what MAIZ reporting about body search etal it would be good for PP play in Mexico.

2. L-9 reported that Andres ARMONA, 10, 11 Tampico.
Jose FERNANDE ROA, newly arrived Cuban dip, told 1-9 that ho came to Metiod in 1959 with a group of young peoplο το πα "official" TEANANDEZ said that Amb MASSIP was in Mexico at that time. 17) reported the this is FERNANDEZ first overseas post.

Heberto JORRIN is expected to return on 14 May 65.
Armina Ramos, Andres Meola 901-333036

5. 1-9 reported that Ovidis SARA, the Vice Congul in Veranxua is quite nick with "turistas", 1.0. amoebas. ile apparently han had this probada in Cuba

6. Ramon STHORAS, Cuban Charre, told L-9) that his baby would be about a week old when the new Ambassador arrived and that this would be fine because he wanted to return to Cuba and tee kiso father who has returned to Habans from Paris (Ramon SINOBAS dol Olmo). SINOBAS wife gave birth to baby boy

Maruel VEGA Perez told (1-9) that 
L that the new Amb Joaquin HERNANDES de Arvas "llegara a mas tarder en diez dias" SECRET
//

14-00000
SECRET the Cuban Embassy from Coyonean. DUNI, who in 1-910
1n extremely "sharp" "realiatio" and "talented" told L-9 the fell

The Cuban ey is now consolidated me the resent trip of Fidel CASTRO to Mondow proves. DUMIN said that CASTRO's absence in Cuba did not affect the regime that things went on the same in his absence etc. DIUIN, however, said that this does not mean that Cuba does not nedd CASTRO He said that Oube is not like the Soviet Union where the loss of KRUECHEV would not affect the regime, Cubanced CASTRO and he must be protected to avoid an assassination attempt
A
8. L-9) aaked EKAKIKI DUNIN about the "tapado" and DUNI answered that at this time, in his opinion, not even tha President LOPEZ N., knows who is going to be the candidate DUNIN stated that a rovolution in Nexigo sipilar to that in Cuba would be very difficult. He attributed this mave
to the fact that the masses in Nexico EXE not in the "debida preperacion politics" required for such a rove olution. He said that it will take one or two generations before Mexico is ready for such a revoluatona
201-334089 201-2087

9. L-9 said that Eusebio AZCUE Lopos, Cuban Consul, is expecte back on 27 May.63.
10. L-9 said that while he was in Habana ho asked that 5 copies of Bohemia he sent to the Embassy. He He said that 10 copies are arriving each week since bis return to Mexico, ile said very little propaganda is coming.

11. L-9 said that he saw Rafael PEDROSA and Antonio AHRUZA at the mbasay but he did not hava a chance to talk with them. Tô said they quickly slipped into SINORAS office.

CKS SECRET
FILE:
5/
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

14-00000

Lama, ciudadana trexicana, (doméstica de Portuondo)
Armona, en Tampico
Roa, vino como Oficial en
época de Vassip
mafiana Martes 14 llega
Jorrin
probablemente en un men
Sinobas coincidirá en He
bana con su padre proceden-
te de Paris
Vega, "De Armas llegard a más tardar en dies dias
GSTER 15 12ST BBTAJADLE
FROM APERTURE DAHU SUBMITTED

14-00000

Dunin. "La Revolución está
tan consolidada, que la
momentanea ausencia de Pid
del, no ha trastornado la
buena marcha de las cosas
en Cubas Esto no quiere
senidel no no séa in-

Dunin." Yo creo que en
este momento ni el mismo
Presidente sabe quien va
a son el candidato"
(Celecciones en México)

Dunin. "Diffoil en México
una revolución estilo Cubel
no existe para ello en la
masa la debida preparación
política"ero requiere por
lo menos una o dos genera
ciones
ONE CARD BUBMITTED

O LITANIE-9)
On 14 May 63, I met LITAMIL-9 at usual undervous point and we drove to outlying area to hold meeting, NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOT Time: 2200-2300
LITA LIMMIL-9 provided the following infor
1-9 had dinner at the Embarry on 14 lay and he identified Emigd to VEGA Calero as a TDyer

YARSALLEND M
Lag said that Emmanuel CARBALLO told him that "Chiquior ARSAMEN DI (sic) employed by the Cona de las American is coming to Mexico
έσον δот вcouple of weeks, SARSAMENDI, Imu, Subject's fathor lives in Maxico and according to CARPALIO, was disappointed that his daughter was not going to stay in Mexico. Subject's mother is luting in Miami.
9) (29)
201-954433 Seydor DIALTO to Cuba

L-9 reported that Seydon DIALTO, Guinean Amb/arrived on Cubana on 14 May 63 and he saw to it that DIATIO had nož problems at the airport. DIALLO is the Guinean Amb to the U.N. also.
Y201-262106 DEALLO told 1-9 that Carlos LECHUGACY, cubon All

was highly respected by all members of the U.. including the U.B. He said that LECHUGA knew how to handle himself in the
CCOMMENT BY SE VDAN DALLO, GUINEN PE to UN COPA MATE very complicated U.N. nareuvers. DIALLO said that RAM THUERISE and JE CHUGA make a good team L-9 that DIALLO is very much pro-CASTRO and undoubtedly a member of the oro CASTRO U.N. aliqus.

wn Vicente LO BARDO Talconng for DIALLO told L-9 that he has known Vigente LOBARDO many years
4. 19 identified the following LIKRODE photos May

Marcial MARTINEZ
(COLORED)
Rafnel PEDROSA
1-9 aaid ho saw MARTINES in Havana recently,
TDyer for donferance on microwaves.
L-9 also identified Jore FERIANDEZ Ron in LIFIRE phito or Sov Embassy press öfiesta" recently.63

5. 1-9 said that Nemuel NEGA Peres told Rafael PETROSA Arandia and Antonio ARRUZA Mon that she should not leave any docs or papers t their hotel room. In fact, both men left immediately to get papore from their tax room.
Agner. Lbelieves they are s believes staying at the Hotel SECRET FILE: LITAIT-9)
6

REPRODUCTION IS BEST MOTAINABLE
FROM APERTHGE CARR MITTED
