14-00000
104-10119-10367
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

20 February 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT: VAN HET REVE, Karel - #839052

REFS; Attached Clippings from the NEW YORK TIMES dtd 11 Jan 1970 and NEWSWEEK dtd 12 Jan 1970

1. References reported that Subject, founder of the Alexander Herzen Foundation in Amsterdam, is publishing the writings of Soviet dissenters; notably Andrei AMALRIK, Andrei SAKHAROV, Pavel LITVINOV and Anatoly T. MARCHENKO.

2. Subject was granted a POA in June 1969 for use as an informant by SB/PO/M, W. Europe, under Project AEEGGHEAD.

Atts. Refs.

Sarah K. Hall
SRS/OS

NEW YORK TIMES
11 January 1970
-New Dutch Group Is Publishing
Writings of Soviet Dissenters

By HENRY RAYMONT

A group of West European, writers as victims of the
scholars have set up a non- obsession fear, thus hardening
profit organization, the Alex- themselves," the representative said. "They contend
ander Herzen Foundation in that there is nothing in Soviet
Amsterdam, to disseminate law to prevent them from pub-
works by dissident Soviet lishing abroad and they insist writers. on exercising their rights."

The purpose is to protect the What differentiates the Her-
author's name against piracy, zen Foundation from some of
political exploitation, careless the émigré presses that publish
translations and other compli- manuscripts smuggled out of
cations that have often marked the Soviet Union, he main-
the publication in the West of tained, is that it has the ap-
manuscripts smuggled out of proval of the authors to act
the Soviet Union. as their agent abroad.

With the increasing interest Established in 1968
in Soviet dissent, scores of The foundation was estab-
Western publishers in recent lished in 1968 by Dr. Karel van
months have turned to the het Reve, who became friendly with
foundation for book rights to writers while at the University of
such works as Andrei Amal- Leyden, with support from a
riok's "Will the U.S.S.R. Sur- group of Dutch businessmen.
vive Until 1984?", Anatoly T. While he was Moscow cor-
Marchenko's "My Testimony," respondent for a Dutch news-
and essays by Pavel Litvinov, paper in 1967 and 1968, Dr. van
grandson of Maxim Litvinov, het Reve became friendly with
Soviet Foreign Minister under several writers who asked to
Stalin. be helped in getting their books published in the West.

Though the translations re- After he returned to Amster-
ceived wide notice in the West- dam in 1968, Dr. van het Reve
ern press, little was known was joined by Dr. Jan Besemer,
about the foundation until one another Russian literature pro-
of its representatives came here fessor, who was also a news-
last week to explain its role paper correspondent in Mos-
to United States publishers. cow, and Peter Reddaway, a
"We received our inspiration lecturer at the London School
from the enlightened efforts of Economics. One of the in-
Alexander Herzen to defy to- stitute's principal advisers is
talitarian methods against Rus- Max Hayward, a translator of
sian authors by publishing them Russian literature.
in the West and sending their The foundation's procedure
books back through a literary is to publish a manuscript in
underground," the representa- its original Russian text, there-
tive, who asked not to be iden- by insuring copyright, before
tified, said in an interview. offering it to publishers in
Western Europe and the Unit-
Herzen Had a Journal ed States.

Herzen, an aristocratic litera- Since it placed its first book
teur and father of Russian in the West, Mr. Litvinov's
socialism, in 1857 started a "Dear Comrade" (published
periodical, Kolokol (The Bell), here by Pitman), the organiza-
in London to publicize his ideas tion has supervised transla-
and those of other dissidents tions and collected royalties
banned by Tsarist autocracy. for the authors. It is now pre-
The journal established a long paring several test cases to de-
tradition of Russian publishing termine whether the authors
in exile that over the years has can be paid through official ac-
included such authors as Lenin, counts in the Soviet State
Gorky, Trotsky and Pasternak. Bank.
"The new generation of So-

12 January 1970
Underground Press

By normal city-desk standards, Karel
van het Reve wasn't much of a news-
hound in his days as Moscow corr spond-
ent for the Dutch daily Het Parool. "I
kept forgetting to ask names and ages,"
be recalls. But then, van het Reve was
really a scholar of Russian literature who
had only signed on with the newspaper
as a way of spending a year or so in the
Soviet Union. And now, back at his lec-
ture hall at Leyden University, the mild-man-
nered 48-year-old ex-reporter is scoop-
ing the world by breaking the story of
the reawakened opposition movement in
Russia through a new foundation named
after Alexander Herzen, the nineteenth-
century Russian writer who printed banned Russian manuscripts abroad, van
het Reve has begun releasing a flood of
manuscript and political documents and
memoirs for publication in the West.

Acting only as agent and translator, van het Reve made headlines with the bitter, apocalyptic pamphlet "Will the U.S.S.R.
Survive Until 1984?" by youthful historian
Andrei Amalrik, which appeared in the fall issue of the British quarterly Survey. And last week, van het Reve gave NEWS-
WEEK'S Robert J. Korengold an exclusive peek at his latest triumph over Soviet censorship: a 400-page dossier on the closed-door trial of four Russian dissidents-Yuri Galkanskov, Aleksandr Ginzburg, Aleksei Dobrovolsky and Vera
Lashkova-that took place in Moscow's grim Kolom khovka Street courthouse in early 1968.

Van het Reve, as it happens, "cow-
ered" that trial himself, shivering with
the rest of Moscow's foreign press corps
in subzero cold on the street outside the court. The charges were, in essence, complicity in the production of a "white
book" of allegedly anti-Soviet documents
concerning the 1966 trial of writers
Yuli Daniel and Andrei Sinyavsky plus alleged collusion with NTS, a counter-

revolutionary Russian émigré group in
Frankfurt, Germany. Friends of the ac-
cused smuggled out thumbnail accounts
of each day's proceedings, and when
the trial ended, van het Reve, through
his friendship with one of the self-
appointed court recorders, came into possession of the 120 different manu-
scripts which make up the book that
Longmans Green will publish in Britain later this year.

Timely: Though much of the material is technical, courageous voices like that of Ginzburg bring the combative atmos-phere of the trial to life. "I thought and
I continue to think now," he declared to the judge, "that if I disagree with
something I should express my disagree-
ment openly... I know that you will con-
vict me because not one person charged
under Article 70 [anti-Soviet activity] has
ever been acquitted. I will go off to the camp calmly to serve my time."

Van het Reve naturally isn't eager to
reveal how he smuggled out this mass of
documentation. "Let's just say I man-
aged," he smiles. Probably through the
time-honored methods of the plain brown envelope and the luggage of departing
foreigners, he and the Herzen Founda-
tion, which ironically occupies the former
headquarters of the Dutch Communist
Party in Amsterdam, have "managed" to
receive not only the Amalrik pamphlet
and the Ginzburg trial records, but a
steady flow of other anti-regime works
including a sharp attack on Soviet politics
by Andrei Sakharov, the noted nuclear
physicist, and a factual account of life
in the U.S.S.R.'s labor camps by Anatoly
Marchenko, who is still serving time for "agitation."

A lapsed Stalinist turned democrat,
van het Reve insists that the Herzen
Foundation is apolitical. "Our only aim is
to give these people a chance to publish
and that's all," he says. And if he can
keep his foundation clear of damaging
outside support and free of any profit
motive.
