1400000

104-10188-10023 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: (Headquarters component) SECRET (WHEN FILLED IN)

WH/1 SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

TO : IP/AN FROM: (Division)

TO: (Station/Base) WHD

Mexico City INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12. ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE, CITE

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL ANY FILES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS. LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 10 MAY
ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE-
ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE. QUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED
IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.
ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-
BOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE- ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE-
MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES. QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

1. TYPE OF FILE 2. COUNTRY NUMBER CODE FILE NUMBER SPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMBER

SUBJECT 050 CATEGORY NUMBER 074/2

PROJECT 006

3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT (PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES))

KDFACTOR

ACTION REQUIRED

4. ANALYSIS ACTION 5. DISPOSITION

OPEN FILE CLOSE FILE (INDICATE DISPOSITION) RETAIN DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED

AMEND FILE TITLE REOPEN THRU (DATE)

6. REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION)

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY) 8. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK LIST (ACTION DESK FIRST)

HMM 050

HOLD IN FILES ACTION

CS FILES RESTRICTED UNRESTRICTED PREPARE FOLDER AND CHANGE PERMANENTLY TO
SEND TO REQUESTER OFFICER & DESK)

10. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)

11. 12. 13.
ENDORSEMENT COORDINATION RHD APPROVAL
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK A. O. SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O. REQUEST APPROVED BY
(WHEN APPLICABLE)
EFFECTIVE DATE CODE FILE NUMBER

23 July 1973 50 06 74/2

FORM OBSOLETE PREVIOUS 38 1-CS COPY
12-63 812 EDITIONS

MFG. 264 SECRET

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC Classicrp Mresspe ROUTING AND C INITIATI
Classicrp Mresspe

ADVANCE COPY iscuro ACTION U WHEN ACTION NO S:
ADVANCE COPY iscuro ACTION U WHEN ACTION NO S:
ADVANCE COPY iscuro ACTION U WHEN ACTION NO S:
SECRET

ACTION U ACTION
SECRET

ACTION U ACTION
SECRET

ACTION U ACTION
SD-FOO FILE, VRJE/AX W118, DOP FL
FILE, VRJE/AX W118, DOP FL
VR

SECRET 141955Z XAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19235 560463

DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR

AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR

REF A. HOA-41502

B. PANTECH 18795 (IN 559398)

1. PLS PROCURE TWO 1020 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES

WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.

2. FOR PANTECH: NOT NECESSARY FROCURE SPOTMATICS

UNLESS ADVISED DIFFERENTLY BY DIRTECH. GP-1.

SECRET

File

KDAFGHAN WH(ACTION) 20 AUG. TED 15/0

KDFACTOR

Support Pieders

SECRET We highli

Does This mu

14-0000
CABLE SECHETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL 1/24-1 AND OR INITIALS SEEN BY
PERSONTUNIT NOTIΓΙΕΟ SECRET When Filled int

REPRODUCT OF S 10

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED CLA
....

029

DISSEN BY CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

ACTION UNIT FILE. VR. ACTION CHANGE
18 750 6

ACTION NO.

MENCO CITY 192366 IN 560463-4

(STATION & NUMBERJ (IN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS
BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM : TSD

(DIVISION)

TO : HY

(DIVISION)

BY : Ba-t-Low-ver CL TSD 3121

(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

IN COORDINATION WITH: Kin Airdrom wit 8252

(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

SECRET DY

14-00000

DISPATCH PROTIENG ACIPEN

CLASSIFICARON
SECRET

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO Chief, Western Hemisphere Division MIKROFE
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division MIKROFE
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division MIKROFE

WBIECT : KDACTOR Project Amendment
ACTION RIJURIDIRLILCENCES

1. Project KDFACTOR was amended 10 December 1971 for
$4,260 for FY 1971 to cover the termination bonuses for
KDFACTOR-1 and KDFACTOR-7. The Project amendment also provides
funds of $19,000 for FY 1972 and $20,000 for FY 1973.

2. One of the provisos of the Froject amendment is that the
Station furnish Headquarters an updated security review of this
oporation with particular attention of the knowledgeability of
terminated agents and their families. The Station should also
address itself to the contingency that the present sites or
personnel will be blown and investigate alternate means of
continuing the KDFACTOR coverage. Please forward the security
review to arrive at Headquarters no later than 15 March 1972.

19
15

Leslie D. CLEBANOFF

Dist: NOT SUITABLE FOR CROSS REFERENCE TO
DSPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

2 COS, Mexico City HMMW-18773

CS COPY CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE 23 DEC 1971
typed 21 Dec 1971
ORIGINATING HOSTILE NUMBER
50-6-74/2

1 WH/1 OFFICER ORIGINATING
4167

1 WH/1 OFWH/L/FI/CI Eternandez cim

1 IP OFFICE SYMBOL COORDINATING

DATE OFFICER'S MAPE EXT

PISI PREVIOUS EDITION.

RELEASING

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER SCHATURE
RELEASING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER SCHATURE

WH/L 21-12-71 John C. Murray
ven
1401 DISPATCH

14-00000
DISPATCH PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division NO INDEXING REQUIRED

Chief, Soviet Bloc Division ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

SUBJECT FROM CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, Mexico City MICROFILM
0

Turnover of LIEMPTY Project

ACTION REQUIRED: None. For your information.

REFERENCE :. ΗΜΜΑ-39,679, 28 October 1970

1. Primary responsibility for the operational and
administrative handling of the LIEMPTY Project was transferred,
effective 1 December 1970, within the Station from the REDTOP..
to the Operational Support Section, This transfer was made
as part of our effort to consolidate basic support functions
in the Operational Support Section, and to relieve the REDTOP
Section of activities which do not contribute directly to the
pursuit of priority recruitment targets. However, the REDTOP
Section will continue to be the principal consumer of the
LIEMPTY product as received from the LILYRIC and LICALLA
photo surveillance points. It will also be the main provid-
er of guidance and requests for special LILYRIC/LICALLA
coverage.

2. The previous REDTOP Case Officer (Bruce H. FERNALD)
introduced the new Case Officer, Howard T. BAGAUS, to LIEMPTY-
9, -13, and -14 in early December. LIMOUSINE, owner of the
LILYRIC property, will continue to be handled by Timothy M.
ARCHBOLD of the REDTOP Section.

Howard J. Archisble
Howard J. ARCHADLE

DISTRIBUTION:
-2C/WAD
1-C/SED

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

ΠΜΜΑ-39,832 9 December 1970

CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER
SECRET 50-6-74/3

14400000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION. MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEENAY
PERSONUNIT NOTIPLEC SECRET
こっこいい・・ (When Filled
L

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED COUCTION OF THIS COPACH.B.TED 9
10
BY: AT To CoS.ES

DISSEM٥٠ CLASSIFY TO FILE NO LE TO FILE NO
ACTION
: 근
INFO RID COPY FILE.IR LOGS-4 LE RIDHET TO

WH-8

767 DESTROY SIG

SECRET 112130Z JUL 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 0915 11 JL 6900900.
M
DIRECTOR
ADMIN/LOGS/LIEMPTY
REFERENCES: A. DIRECTOR 19455
B. BOOK DISPATCH 6678
C. HMMTA-9673

KEYED TO REFERENCE S.

1. A. RAMBLER AMERICAN SEDAN

B. 1969

C. SERIAL AK-17560

D. MV-2947

E. 3258.25 USD PURCHAS PLUS 97.75 USD MEXICAN
TAX; TOTAL 3355.00 USD.
G. REGISTERED AS GERENDE PERSONAL VEHICLE. RECORDED
ON FINANCE VOUCHER 06038 DTD 9 JULY 1969

2. DISPOSAL MV - 2606 PEPORTED REFERENCE C.

SECRET

LIEMPTY

SECRET 50-6-71
14-00000

ORIG: Damon Watters/sah

UNIT: WH/Logistics

EXT: 6282

DATE: 10 July 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION (chsesification) ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SFEN BY
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
76ECRET 14

By: 24 1400011
WH-8 INDEX NO INDER RETURN T0 BRANCH PIIP AID

FILE, VA FILE IN CO PILD NO.

LOGSY
(elite)
CITE DIRECTOR
TO Γ 19485

MEXICO CITY

ADMIN LOGS LIEMPTY

REF: DIRECTOR 83554

REQUEST STATION ADVISE STATUS MV-2947 AND DISPOSITION

MV-2606. INFO NEEDED SOONEST FOR COMPILING NEW BUDGET
ESTIMATES.

END OF MESSAGE

Darny
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD WH/1

DISTRIBUTION:
RELEASING OFFICER OL/SD/FSB/VS
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
B
R. L. KING
C/WH/'LOG
50-6-14
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
GROUP T
bluded the cuteccatis divergrading and

slegtetton
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. CCY NO.

14:10000

omg: H. Feverill/it MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
An/Logistics 16
SECRET

UNIT:
ROUTING AND INTL.ALE EN Y
L

DATE: 0282 INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH PILE RID
15 March 1969
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION 04
10
PER NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CONFI DIO COPY FILE VE RITAN, Lasp
ACTION FILE

TO Γ (elite)
83554
MEXICO CITY (reference number) (pica)
CITE DIRECTOR

ADD. 1,0CS LILIPTY MARS
PILATCH CITY DASH (IN-11845)* AN
ABX

1. STATION AUTHORIZED DISPOSE MV-2606 PER FR 45-31 (3)

AND REPLACE LOCALLY WITH 1969 RAMBLER, COST NOT TO EXCEED

১৯০০০.০০. NV-2947 APPLIES TO NEW VEHICLE.

2. ADVISE DESCRIPTION MV-2947 AND DISPOSAL ACTION

MV-2606 EHEN ACCOMPLISHED IN ACCORDANCE WITH BD-6678.
3. FILE: 50-6-74/2

WII Comment: *Reference requested approval to replace locally
a 1963 Rambler which has reached 78,000 miles
and is in need of repairs.

BILLI V. BROP
C/WIID WH/B & F
and n
KH/1 A Matine

DISTRIBUTION:
OL/SD/FSB/VS CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
R. L. KIM
C/WH/LOG
13 Mar 69
50-6-74/2
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.
GROUPT
bcluded tram autematic

downgrading and

locatio
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFLED
SD MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filled inl
17
2
3
Orig REPRODUCTION OF THIS COMPROMITED 9
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOPTIO 5 10

7
BY: AT CLASSIFY TO FILE 10

ASSESSAGE
REPTO PILE NO
DISSEN OV ACTION 76 FILE VA, DESTROY SIG.
PEA INFO RID COPY 21/AN, LOGS 4, MP3/BG

WH.8

959
141440080

SECRET 112210Z MAR 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 9438
Mexi
DIRECTOR

LIEMPTY LOGS 1 MAR 69 IN 11843
MAN
AX
1. REQUEST APPROVAL REPLACE NV-2606, USED BY RAYMON H.

GERENDE AS LIEMPTY PRINCIPAL AGENT. REPLACEMENT REQUESTED ON
FOLLOWING GROUNDS:

J. VEHICLE NEARLY SIX YEARS OLD AND HAD 72,000 MILES AS
OF I MARCH 1969.

B. IN NEXT SIX MONTHS VEHICLE WILL NEED REPAIRS TO ENGINE,
BRAKES, STEERING AND BODY, ESTIMATED COST OF WHICH EXCEEDS.

50 PER CENT OF CURRENT CASH VALUE OF CAR, WHICH ESTIMATED AT
1000, DOLLARS..

2. PLAN REPLACE MV-2506 WITH EQUIVALENT VEHICLE, COST NOT TO
EXCEED 4000 DOLLARS. BELIEVE LOW-PRICED AMERICAN BRAND SEDAN SUCH
AS RAMBLER AMERICAN WILL FIT OPERATIONAL, SECURITY, AND COVER
REUIREMENTS. NECESSARY MONHDCAVAILABLE IN PROJECT AS STATION
PROJECTS FYSS LIEMPTY OBLIGATIONS AT 35,000 DOLLARS AGAINST PROJECT
APPROVAL OF 43,320 DOLLARS FOR FY69.

3. IF APPROVED, PLS INCREASE FIELD PROCUREMENT ALLOTMENT.

4. FILE: 50-6-74/2.

SECRET COPY
SECRET
11 Mar 69
1X 50-6-74/2

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT O.SSEMINATIO2