104-10167-10190 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS ::  2/WND 31
SECRET PROCESSING
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, Special Affairs Staff
Chief of Station, JMAVE AKR
JMPALM/Operational
A Progress Report for the Months of November and December 1963 for Identity

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI-

REFERENCES: A. UTGA 12038, 24 October 1983
B. UTGA 11883, 15 October 1963 201-301754
C. UTGA 12903, 10 October 1963

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS: Identity regularly in a regular contact
201-301754

1. Identity was originally contacted by JMPALM Case officer in mid-1963. The results of Identity's assessment by the JMPALM Case Officer were reported in detail in Reference B. It later developed that Identity was an acquaintance of AMHINT-1 who was subsequently put in contact with Identity for training and subsequent recruitment.

2. Training sessions continued between JMPALM-2 and Identity through most of November and early December 1963. As in other newly recruited JMPALM assets, the agent was regularly critiqued as to the value of his information and was provided with regular guidance in order to better strengthen his value to JMPALM. Following is a list of those persons with whom the subject is in contact on a regular basis or with whom he corresponds frequently:
no 20lva: Dominican Air Force Colonel Pedro, who visited Miami from the Dominican Republic. BENOE plans to return to Miami in early 1964.
no 20lva: Antonio ALLANO Montem Cuban navy veteran now living in the Dominican Republic who occasionally visits the Miami area.
no 20lva: Retired Dominica Army Colonel Fernando CARTAGENA who resides in Miami but who maintains regular correspondence with many Dominican military leaders.
201-313305 no 20lva: Edward DENIS a Haitian exile currently residing in Miami, who corresponds regularly with several Haitian youth leaders who are in opposition to Duvalier and who visit Miami from time to time.

Attachments u/s/c COPY
Identity

Distribution: RIDE/AN 7 (marines)
C/WMD attch PERENCE
2-C/SAS w/atton USI

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MISFILED

SECRET

CONTROLS
CA-1353 -9757

SECRET

CONVERSATIONS

CA-1338 -3678
George. A. MADDEN a friend of, whom Identity knows personally. MADDEN's mail is sent to 333 8.W. 27th Avenue, Miami, Florida when the latter is in Miami, and is visited by Identity frequently.

-7579: Mario, GONDA del Caribe and Jean Louis, OSSIER Dominican newspapermen who frequently visit Miami and are old acquaintances of Identity.

-7575: LADY CAMILLE Haitian diplomat who now resides in Port-au-Prince. CAMILLE has known Identity for many years. He is now residing in returns bus plans to visit Miami in early 1968 (See UTGA-11873).

5. Identity uses several exile front groups as cover for his meetings with his Miami contacts and in strengthening his position as a trusted acquaintance in his communications with the aforementioned sub-sources in the Dominican Republic and Haiti.

6. Identity has presented no problems of a security nature during the period under review and no problems are foreseen at this time. He knows the JMPALM Case Officer only as "Jorge" and meets regularly with AMPAL-1 under secure conditions.

7. Subject has not yet been granted a JMPALM cryptonym as was requested in reference C which transmitted Identity's PRQ Part II to Headquarters. RUDOLPH RABOUN 201-734802 CSt: HAITI
PRODUCTION
nephew of Berge Francis (201-739703): Sety is Haitial Consul in Miami, Florida

8. During the months of nonths of November and December Identity is credited with having provided JMPALM with the following intelligence reports:

UFG 4045: "Visit to the Dominican Republic by Unidentified Representative of Venezuelan President Romulo Betancourt"

UFG 4046: "Political Activities Against the Civilian Junta in the Dominican Republic"

UFG 4169: "Permission for the Movimiento Demócrata Cristiano (MDC) to Establish a Cuban Exile Base in Venezuela" and "Involvement of Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras with the HDC."

UFG 4187: "Plans of the Dominican Triumvirate to Appoint General Elias Wessin y Wessin to the Post of Minister of War."

UFG 4281: "Alleged Plans for a Military Coup d'état in Venezuela."

UFG 4288: "Plans of Dominican Military Leaders to Sabotage the San Isidro Air Base."

UFG 4268: "Attempts of the 19th of June Movement to Defer Recognition of the Dominican Triumvirate by the U.S."

UFG 4264: "Cuban Exile Plans to Set up Anti-Communist Radio and Television Programs in the Dominican Republic."

November 1988 Salary $175.00
December 1988 Salary $200.00
Christmas Bonus $ 25.00

Total: $395.00
SECRET CONTINUED

SECRET
UTGA-22503

FUTURE PLANS

8. Identity will continue to be met by AMPAL-1 until 1 March 1888 when his productios, will be further evaluated and he will be turned over to AGROTHY-1 for handling on a permanent basis. It will be noted that AGROTHY-1 who was recruited for a job as JHPALM principal agent to handle several recently acquired assets, is now undergoing training by AMPAL-1 in an effort to better groom this agent for the principal agent job.

END OF DISPATCH

201-301754
SECRET CONTINUED

SECRET
Separate Cover Attachment to UTGA 13543

IDENTITY: (Pedro VALDIVIA) 201-301754 CIT. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC?
AmiAmi, FLORIDA Re: contact of Ruby
in Miami, FLORIDA

Encepto uran 13543
21 Jan 64 201-301754
