14-00000

104-10164-10099 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10/09/04 SECRET FRP: 2.

INTEL

ACTION: LA-13 (287) INFO: FILE, VR, DDO-4, C/PCS, CI-4, EPS/EG-2, IID,
IP/DMS, LSN/ID; ODPD-D, PCS/INT-5, SIA, SIA/FL, SIA/IC, (37/n) 
SOTDS

78 0366244 PAGE 001 OF 001 IN 0366244
TOR: 281740Z FEB 78 CARA 35621

SECRET 281715Z FEB 78 INTEL JOFIR DB-315/02855-78
CITE CARACAS 35621 HVC-7858

TO: DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI

NNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE

SUPDATA: SOURCE: WKDIET/WKDIET-5 DIRECTLY AS DESCRIBED IN
CARACAS 35583. NOT FOR LIAISON, OD OBJECTIVE: J.1.
FILE DEFERRED. CL BY 013533.
FILED: 2817152 XXXXX

RECORD COPY
2!

14-00000

ORM
76
CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE

SECRET
Intelligence Information Cable ROUTINE
DISTRIBUTION INDICATED
PAGE 001 OF 002

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
STATE/INR JCS/MC(DIA) CIA/NMCC SS/ID FBI
(SY/TAG) SWS NSA TREAS SDO (HARD COPIES TO: NSC/S
NFAC WHSITRM SECUR DDA DDST OSI D/OMS OCR)..

Classified by Recorded Reporting officer. Exempt from General Declassification Schedule of L.O. 11652 Exemption
Category 58 (11 possible to Determine Date of Automatic Declasstecationi
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
REPORT CLASS SECRET WNINTEL-NOFORN-NOCONTRACT

CITE TOFIR DB-315/02855-78
DIST 28 FEB 78

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA
SUBJECT: DETERIORATING PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXILE
LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH (DOI: 27 FEBRUARY 1978)

SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHO MAINTAINS CONTACTS
WITH CUBAN EXILES. HIS REPORTING IS GENERALLY
RELIABLE.

1. THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER
ORLANDO BOSCH IS NOT CRITICAL AND CUBAN EXILE LEADERS AS
WELL AS THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BELIEVE THAT HIS DEATH
IS NEAR. IN A LAST EFFORT TO GET BOSCH TO SUBMIT TO MEDICAL
TREATMENT AND TO WITHDRAW FROM HIS HUNGER STRIKE, CUBAN
EKILE LEADERS ARE TRYING TO GET FORMER VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT
ROMULO BETANCOURT TO VISIT BOSCH AND REASON WITH
HIM. BOSCH ADMIRES BETANCOURT FOR HIS STAUNCH ANTI-CUBAN
SOVERNMENT STAND AND CUBAN UNILE LEADERS BELIEVE HE IS THE ONLY
ONE WHO MIGHT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY APPEAL TO BOSCH.

2. BOSCH'S PHYSICIAN ARINALDO MARTIN CANG,
ANG IS IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, HAS
ADVISED THE AUTHORITIES THAT COSCHIS VITAL SIGNS ARE

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
WARNING NOTICE
IN 0300200
TOFIR DB-315/02855-78
PAGE 002 OF 002
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

WEAKENING AND THAT HIS GASTRIC CONDITION IS DETERIORATING.
EXILE LEADERS HAVE ASKED GOVERNMENT PERMISSION TO HAVE
BOSCH ADMITTED TO A PRIVATE HOSPITAL AND HAVE INDICATED THEIR
WILLINGNESS TO PAY ALL EXPENSES. THE CUBAN EXILES HAVE ALSO
APPEALED TO PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ TO EITHER
RELEASE BOSCH OR BRING HIM TO TRIAL. PEREZ, HOWEVER, HAS
REPLIED THAT HE CANNOT YIELD TO ANY TYPE OF PRESSURE INCLUDING
THAT OF A HUNGER STRIKE

3. (FIELD COMMENTS IN HVC-7853, TDFIRDB-315/02582-78,
THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED THAT MINISTER OF INTERIOR OCTAVIO
LEPAGE SAID HE FEARED BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD BRING ABOUT
INCREASED TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT
AND, IN TURN, OFFICIAL REPRISALS AGAINST THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY.

4. ACOS VENEZUELA, CARACAS (28 FEBRUARY 1976)
FIELD NO, HVC-7858.

5. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS,
REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XCD8-2..
84.

BEGRET

14-00000

55/21/69
SECRET
FRP:

INTEL

ACTION: LA-13 (111) INFO: FILE, VR, DDO-4, CA-4, EPS/EG-2, IIb, IP/DNS.
ODPD-D, PCS/INT-5, (32/) TD 92

76-0350612 PAGE 001 OF 001 IN 0350612
TOR: 2316467 FEB 78 CARA 35581
....
BECRET2316212 FEB 78 INTEL IDFIR DB-315/02562-76
CITE CARACAS 35561 HVC-7853

TO: DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.

WNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE
SUPDATAS SOURCE: WKDIET/HKDIET-S DIRECTLY. NOT FOR LIAISON.
OD OBJECTIVE: J.1. NO INDEX. FILE DEFERRED.
CL BY 035133.

FILED: 2316212 XXXXX

ma
TRAVEL PROGRAM
ASIAR
RECORD COPY
201-299392
33 FIF

14-00000
L

DIRECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS
SECRET
Intelligence Information Cable
RDOTINE
IN: 0:50612
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THES INFORMATION SUBJECT TO PAGE 001 OF 003
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF DEPORT.

STATE/INR JCS/MC(DIA) CIA/NMCC 88/10 FBI..
(ST/TAG) SNS NSA TREAS SDO (MARD COPIES TOS
NSC/8 NFAC WHSITAM OCR SECUR ODA).

Comhed by Bacarded Reporting Officer Сечени сасани
Category 30 (IL (2)
Dece
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
REPORT CLASS SECR E TO-NINTEL-NORORN-NOCONTRACT

CITE TOFIR 08-315/02582-70
DIST 23 FEB. 78

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA

SUBJECT: FEARS THAT THE DEATH OF ORLANDO BOSCH AS A RESULT

SOURCE:
OF A HUNGER STRIKE MAY BRING ABOUT REPRISALS
(DOI: 20-21 FEBRUARY 1978)

A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHO ΜΑΙΝΤAINS CONTACTS WITH
CUBAN EXILES. HIS REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE,

1. BOTH THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA ARE CONCERNED THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER
ORLANDO BOSCH MAY DIE AS A RESULT OF HIS CURRENT HUNGER
STRIKE. FURTHERMORE, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT FEARS THAT
SHOULD BOSCH DIE, CUSAN EXILE GROUPS WILL STEP UP THEIR ATTACKS
ON VENEZUELAN FACILITIES. THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY, IN TURN.
PEARS THAT EXILE ATTACKS. ON THE VENEZUELANE WOULD BRING ABOUT
FURTHER VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT REPRISALS AGAINST THE EXILE COM
MUNITY. (FIELD COMMENTI BOSCH HAS BEEN IMPRISONED IN VENEZUELA
SINCE OCTOBER 1976 IN CONNECTION WITH THE COMBING OF A CURANA
AIRLINER. HE. AND THE OTHER INDIVIDUALS ACCUBED OF INVOLVEMENT
IN THE BOMBING, HAVE NOT YET BEEN BROUGHT TO TRIAL. BOACH..
CHO SUFFERS FROM A HEART AILMENT AND ULCERS, HAD BEEN ON A

SEGART

14-00000
L

SECRET
ARNING NOTICE 14 0350012
TOFER 08-315/02582-78
PAGE 002 OF 003
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

HUNGER STRIKE FOR APPROXIMATELY THREE WEEKS.)

2. ON 20 FEBRUARY 1978 OCTAVIO LEPAGE. VENEZUELAN
MINISTER OF INTERIOR, DISCUSSED BOSCH'S CONDITION WITH. A
CUBAN EXILE LEADER IN VENEZUELA. LEPAGE SAID THAT HE HAD
RECEIVED REPORTS ON BOSCH'S PHYSICAL CONDITION AND THAT HE AND
OTHER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WERE CONCERNED THAT BOSCH MIGHT
INDEED DIE. SHOULD THIS OCCUR. LEPAGE SAID HE HAD NO DOUBT
THAT VENEZUELA WOULD BECOME THE TARGET FOR CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST
ATTACKS. LEPAGE EXPLAINED THAT BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD MEAN
PROBLEMS FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY.
THEREFORE.
LEPAGE ASKED THE EXILE LEADER TO TALK WITH BOSCH AND ATTEMPT
TO DISSUADE HIM FROM CONTINUING WITH THE STRIKE.

3. THE CUBAN EXILE LEADER ACCOMPANIED BY REINALDO
MARTIN CANO, A CUBAN EXILE PHYSICIAN, VISITED BOSCH IN
THE HOSPITAL ON 21 FEBRUARY AND FOUND HIM TO BE IN SERIOUS
PHYSICAL CONDITION. BOSCH ALLOWED MARTIN TO GIVE HIM INJECTIONS
TO COMBAT BRAIN DEHYDRATION, BUT REFUSED ANY OTHER TREATMENT.
BOSCH ALSO REFUSED TO GIVE UP HIS HUNGER STRIKE.

4. BOSCH EXPLAINED THAT HE WANTS TO BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL
BUT ADDED THAT VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ
18 AFRAID TO BRING HIM BEFORE A COURT OF LAW. PRESIDENT PEREZ.
BOSCH SAID BETRAYED HIM AND THE CUBAN EXILES.
FURTHERMORE...
PRESIDENT PEREZ WILL BE PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DEATH
AND WILL PAY THE PRICE FOR HIS QUILT. (BOURCE COMMENTS

SEGRET

.14:00000:
L
SECRET
MANNING NOLICE
IN 15662ة
TOFAR 08-319702582-78
PAGE 903 OF 003
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT..

DETAILS OF PEREZ SUPPOSED BETRAYAL OF BOSCH ARE NOT KNOWN.
THE OPINION OF THE EXILE COMMUNITY IS THAT BOSCH AND PEREZ. HAD
SOME SORT OF DEAL WHICH BOSCH FEELS PEREZ BETRAYED.)

5. ACO: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (22 FEBRUARY 1978) FIELD NO.
HVC-7853

6. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY. FBI AT CARACAS.
REPORT CLASS SECRET--NARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2

SECRET

14-00000
L
133/

SECRET
ACTIONS IP/DP-5 (057) INFO: FILE, RF, ODPD-D. (7/4) Faps
DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

78 0335346 PAGE 001 CARA 35550
TOR: 172030Z FEB 78

SECRET 1719432 FEB 78 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE CARACAS 35550

TO: WASHINGTON,
FOR: LA/VCE of

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE RELEASE OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH
REFERENCE: WASHINGTON 173605

1. LEGALLY THERE IS LITTLE CHANCE OF CONVICTING BOSCH
AND THE OTHERS BECAUSE THE CRIME WAS NOT COMMITTED IN VENEZUELA
AND THUS VENEZUELA HAS NO JURISDICTION IN THE CASE. SECONDLY,
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE AGAINST BOSCH AND GROUP. THESE ARE THE
OPINIONS OF A NUMBER OF STATION AGENTS AND CONTACTS INCLUDING
VENEZUELAN LEGAL EXPERTS SUCH AS WKALIKE-1, WKDIET-6 AND
NKSCARLET-٩.

2.. WHILE HERNAN AND LUGO SUPPOSEDLY CONFESSED TO THE
CRIME IN TRINIDAD, THEIR CONFESSIONS ARE NOT ADMISSABLE IN
COURT AND THEY HAVE DECLINED TO REPEAT THEM FOR VENEZUELAN
JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES. THE EVIDENCE LINKING HERNAN AND LUGO
TO POSADA COMES FROM TELEPHONE TAPS, WHICH ARE LIKEWISE
INADMISSABLE, BOSCH'S CONNECTION WITH THE CASE COMES FROM.
A TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN LUGO AND POSADA IN WHICH
THE NAME "ORLANDO" IS MENTIONED. DEFENSE ATTORNEYS COULD
MAKE A GOOD CASE THAT THE "ORLANDO" WAS DISIP OFFICER ORLANDO
GARCIA AND NOT ORLANDO BOSCH.

3. THE GOV COULD, OF COURSE, PUT PRESSURE ON THE COURT
AND JUGGLE THE EVIDENCE TO GET A CONVICTION, BUT TO DO SO WOULD
LEAVE IT OPEN FOR CRITICISM INTERNALLY AND REPRISALS FROM THE
CUBAN EXILES, AND WOULD MAKE IT MORE LIKELY THAT THE DEFEND
DANTS WOULD DIVULGE EMBARRASSING INFORMATION CONNECTING
GOVERNMENT FIGURES TO BOSCH AND THE EXILES HE LED.

4. NO FILE, E2 IMPDET

PAS PROGRAM
CODE
AVBAT REST. CLEL
•END OF MESSAGE
RECORD COPY
SECRET
17 Lik N

14-00000
L

21
STAL COPIES
SECRET 23
arsance COPY ISSUEP/SETET
LA 13 (1,111)....2150.
FILE, VR, DDO 4. EPS/EG 2, IP/DMS, IID, PCS/INT 5
4. CA 4.CA/SOG 4.SIA、SIA/FL, PCL ITC 4. FR S

1 978598 Ε14909 PAGE
AGENCY MESSAGE
TOR: 2821487 JUN 77 IN 328368
CARA 33517
TDFIRDB-315/07585-77
HVC-7640
SECRET 282126Z JUN 77 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 33517 (HACKELING ACTING)
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FR/NEW YORK,

WNINTEL INTEL MKSTONE
SUPDATA:
:
Ah 290237)
SOURCE: WKRAPLER/KRAPIER-5 FROM SUBJECT OF
CARACAS 33185.. WHO SAW THE DECIPHERED NOTE, NOT

FOR LIAISON. OD OBJECTIVE: J.1. NO INDEX.
:
FILE DEFERRED. (NOTE: INFO SHOULD BE PASSED
TO DUPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
SECURITY.) CL BY 035133.

FILED: 28 21 25 2 XX XX X
SECRET
1. C/CO
2. DG/COG
3. COG/OPS
4. NR
5. CA
6. 01/05
7.0/WIHA
0.0/EUK
3.٥/٤٨
10. O/NEAF
Aord
File
Orlands
BOSCH

14-00000
L

DIRECTORATE of
OPERATIONS
SECRET

Intelligence Information Cable
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED • PRIORITY
IN 324348
STATE.DIA) CLA. Muce SWE NA TREAS NIC'S 600 NO OCR PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
(SY/LG) SS/ID FOI SECUR LISI DA 500
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFCRMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
CITE TOHR Da-315/07585-77
DIST 28 JUNE 1977
REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE- SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEAS ABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-DISSEMINATION
AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.
COUNTRY: VENEZUELA

D01: 24 JUNE 1977
SUBJECT: INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE
BEING SMUGGLED IN TO THE SAN CARLOS PRISON FOR ORLANDO
BOSCH

ACO VENEZUELA, CARACAS (28 JUNE 1977) FIELD NO. HVC-7690
SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH A WIDE RANGE OF CONTACTS
WITH VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY HAS
NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED, HE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION FROM
AVENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.

1. ON 24 JUNE 1977 VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS INTERCEPTED.
A' MESSAGE WHICH HAS BEING SMUGGLED INTO THE SAN CARLOS. PRISON.
FOR CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH. WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER
DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOBER 1976
BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER. ALTHOUGH THE MESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTE D..
VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES COPIED IT AND THEN ALLOWED IT TO BE DELIVERED

SEGRET

14-00000
L

WARNING ΝΟΤΙΟΣ. IN 326368
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INWWIED.. TDFIR DA-315/07585-77
SECRET PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
Felezatflection)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT STUNNING AND END OF. REPORT.
TO BOSCH, WHO PRESUMABLY IS UNAWARE THAT THE MESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTED.
(SOURCE COMMENTS THE IDENTITY OF THE SENDER IS UNKNOWN.)

2. THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN THE SAME CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN
AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO BREAK. THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT
OF THE NOTE:

URBAN GUERRILLAS BEGINNING, SOON YOU WILL BE SET FREE,
APARTMENT RESOLVED. ANITA GAVE ME THE MONEY. MARCOS"

3. (FIELD COMMENT: FOR INFORMATION ON AN EARLIER MESSAGE
WRITTEN IN CODE FROM BOSCH TO AN ANA P. SEE HVC-7680, TDFIRDB-315/
86944-77, OF 14 JUNE, FROM THE SAME SOURCE.)

4. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS. SENT TO USUN.
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS
NOT RELEAS ABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-
DISSEMINATION OR EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY
OR 10 INATOR. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XG DS-2
ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR SWS NSA JCS CIAOPS CENTER
FBI TREAS
......

14-00000
PERSONUNT NOTIFICA

✓SD1337
TOMA Comes
SECRET:.:
REPACOUNCIL OF OTHER TO
Isovine oFFICE IS PROHIBIT
DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
ADVANCE COPY issue TED
Tebest
L
ACTION
FILE VR.
7938337 E14419
PAGE 21
To R: 1611172 JUN 77
SECRET 1618522 JUN 77 DEFERRED TELE POUCH
CITE GEORGETOWN 21986.

TO: WASHINGTON,
FOR: C/LA
Оте

SUBJECT: WN INTEL/ORLANDO BO SCH - "THE NEW TIMES" INTERVIEW
1

REF: DIRECT OR 230287
Loc - 199292
:.

3. WORKING PEOPLE'S VANGUARD PARTY (WPVP), A SPLINTER
PARTY WITH FEW ADHERENTS LED BY BRINDLEY BENN. PUBLISHED
3. JUNE MIMEOGRAPHED FLYER WITH HALF BACK PAGE DEVOTED "JAMAICAN
DAILY NEWS INTERPRETATION "THE NEW TIMES" ARTICLE. ARTICLE 'S
FOCUS IS THE BOSCH/PERES CONNECTION AND THAT BOSCH IS A SELF-
PROCLAIMED CIA AGENT.

2. UPI ARTICLE HAS NOT BEEN REPLAYED IN THE GUYA NE SE
DAILIES. THE WPVP FLYER REACHES FEW READERS AND THE IR
REACTION IS NOT MEASUREABLE.
2. NO FILE. 82 IMPDET.
:
•

SECRE
RECORD COPY
16 Jun 17
201-0279292

14-00000
PERSOOVI OTIFIED
15
456
21
23
167
5
T7
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/Spuiter
AC٧١٥٠ wit LA 13
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET 12150.
CL. BY: 206657
AGENCY MESSAGE
FILE, VR, DDO, EPS/EG 2. XP/DMS IID, PCS/INT S
C 4. CA 4. CA/SOG. 4. SIA. SIA/FL, PCS/ITC 4. FR S

T 978598 E1A989 PAGE 21 IN 328360
CARA 33517
TOR: 2821487 JUN 77
SECRET 2821262 JUN 77 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 33517 (HACKELING ACTING) TDFIKDB-315/07585-77
HVC-7690
TO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FR/NEW YORK.

WNINTEL INTEL MKSTONE
SUPDATA:
:
Ah 290237)
SOURCE: WKRAPIER/WKRAPIER-5 FROM SUBJECT OF
CARACAS 33185., WHO SAW THE DECIPHERED NOTE. NO T

FOR LIAISON. OD OBJECTIVE: J.1. NO INDEX.
:
FILE DEFERRED. (NOTE: INFO SHOULD BE PASSED
TO DUPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
SECURITY.) CL BY 035133.
L
FILED: 28 21 26 Z XX XX X

SECRET
TRAVEL PRODSAM
NE (11)
ASINE (12)
AVBAT HEST. C LOC
CABLE TOON (11)
RECORD COPY 1-599212
28 Jun 77

14-00000

L

KBEKTOPATE of
OPERATIONS
SECRET

Intell...gence Information Cable
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE ENTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED HRIORITY
IN 31362
STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA'NICE SWS NSA TREAS NSC OCK PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
(STAG),SS/ID FBI SECUR WHSITRM

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
CITE TOFIR DB-315/06944-77
DIST 14 JUNE 1977
REPORT CLASS SECRET --WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCE'S AND METHODS INVOLVED- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS
COUNTRY VENEZUELA.

DOI EARLY JUNE 1977
SUBJECT INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE
FROM ORLANDO BOSCH THREATENING VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS

ACQ VENEZUELA CARACAS (13 JUNE 1977) FIELD NO. HVC-7688
SOURCE A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH A WIDE RANGE OF CONTACTS
WITH VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY
HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED. HE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION
FROM A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.

1. VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS RECENTLY INTERCEPTED A
MESSAGE WHICH CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH, WHO IS CUR
RENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE

OCTOBER 1976 BONDING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, WAS ATTEMPTING TO
(SOURCE
SMUGGLE OUT OF THE PRISON WHERE HE IS BEING HELD
COMMENTI IT IS NOT KNOWN HOW BOSCH'S NOTE. WAS BEING SMUGGLED
OUT OF THE PRISON OR WHETHER BOSCH IS AWARE THAT THE NOTE HAS
BEEN FOUND BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES, THE IDENTITY OF THE ADDRESSBE

SECRET 101-99999
1

14-00000
L

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED IN 313692
TOFIR DB-315/06944-77
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
SECRET
(classification)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

061
IS ALSO UNKNOWN.
2. THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN A CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN AUTHOR-...
ITIES WERE SUCCESSFUL IN BREAKING. THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT OF
BOSCH'S NOTES
"ANAP.
"OTHER MESSAGES WILL FOLLOW. ATTEMPTS TO KIDNAP
VENEZUELAN DIPLOMATS ARE GOING TO OCCUR. VENE ZUEL AN
AMBASSADOR TO THE, UNITED NATIONS. THIS INVOLVES A
TREMENDOUS RISK FOR ME AS I AM STILL IN JAIL: WE
HAVE TO ATTACK EVERYTHING, EXCEPT THEIR PLANES IN
THE AIR. THEIR OFFICES ON THE GROUND, YES. I HOPE
PATER TO BE FREE SOON. THERE IS NO PRO0.0.8,"
77:

FIELD DISSEMI, EMBASSY, FBIAT CARACAS, USUN.
REPORT CLASS SECRE TOKARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND MEHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONAL S
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS,
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, XO DS-2
ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TOI STATE, DIA, ARMY, NAVY, AIR JCS NSA, SUS,
CIA/OPSCEN, PEI, SS/ID, TREASURY.

BEGRET

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENT (MEMO FROM DIRECTOR)
DATE: 1 JUNE 1977
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: RALPH W. STAVINS - POSSINLE ESPIONAGE
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
7101 06-0948157.5
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
0120141490
0000
20
GASSIFICATION
SECRET
STAFF
CONF: LAS INFO: FILE
BATS-FANS GROUP
DIRECTOR 046466
240 4. RR DUSSEM BY:
PLOMS NEB DAO4RR YPLES
AGC/000 000/00 PER
Арcs
TO: IMMEDIATE CARACAS-Y
UNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE Y

REF: DIRECTOR 043403 Y

1. HEADQUARTERS URGENTLY NEEDS STATION COMMENTS ON MESSAGE
FORWARDED REFERENCE IS THERE ANY CONFIRMATION THAT BOSCH GAVE
INTERVIEW AS ALLEGED AND THREATENED VIOLENCE ON PART OF HIS
FOLLOWERS UNLESS HE IS BROUGHT TO TRIAL WITHOUT FURTHER DELAYPY

2. NO FILE. £2、IMPDET.H
45
S
Boscat
LA COMMENT: REF TRANSMITTED FBI MESSAGE CONCERNING ALLEGED RADIO
INTERVIEW GIVEN BY JAILED CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH. STATION
WAS ASKED FOR ANY INFORMATION RELATED TO INTERVIEW.

ORIG: LA/PNC (KENNER X945434 COORD: PCS/ITC ESHIELDS - TELECOORDI
BUSTOS BORING
LA/COG CWINTERS AUTHOC/LA/PNC (DESMOND REL: C/LAD CURENT.

DATE 6 JUNE 1977
ORIG
HILDA KENNER ILU
UNIT
LA/PNC/R
BXT 9454
C/LA
PELBAGING
SECRET
L
S/ITC (SHIELDS - TELECOORDS
AC/LA/COG
AUTHENTICATING
6/LA/PNC

