14-00000
104-10052-10130

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

FROM: Lame

SUBJECT : Meeting L-9 17 July 1963

1. An unexpected meeting was held with L-9 on 17
July -- Barker had a coded meeting with AMSUCCIO -- the Comerciante
Ejercito Nacional and Thiers y Molchor Ocampo at 2100 hours but L-9 failed to
show. Barker stopped by the corner of Gutenberg and Thiers y
Molchor Ocampo to make a call to
--but as B's car stalled out of the street,
said, in English, "Here I am." 
explained that he had called 3 home
--but as B's car failed he said --
3's wife he said --
probably be back in about half an hour-Living came by to make
(from the pay phone at Gutenberg and Thiers).
saw Barker pass Later spotted the car pull by the corner of the
Thiers usual purpose is to
assumed by this time Barker had spoken with his wife,
the word that B 3 was expecting him.
explained his presence. 
for (partly true) and saying he was concerned
a scheduled meeting the next
with (Alan Corgan) in the vicinity of the
Dawn Hotel where he was supposed to have
as to reveal something about

ambassadors and cultural missions are such dangerous-hence a warning
discreet clandestine connection
warming and so forth
reportedly
and the date of the anniversary is such 21 July ,

4. He reported certain additional developments
(a) A big celebration of the 5th of July (Tampico) will be held

in Salita (Reynosa). 
celebration
will take place in

at
(Primary), 
a restaurant that takes place near
Indicates will arrive on Monday and stink boat

TO WHOM 21747 DS COPY

201-329609

She was introduced to the First Lady by (Inu) BARRIOS.

(Chaotic).
(c) the new Cuban Counsel, tells that
because he has done 
recalations.

(d) APAUCIO also reported that the Fousing PLUACHIA DE CUBA
obtain

(e) APUCCIO said that when he was in Prague he had trouble
with the cities asked to be sent to some other European
COUNT was surprised at the suddenness of his transfer
to Mexico.
(f) (In response to a question as to the should be the 
among the Embassy staff said
that he knows about JOAQUIN Loyale to the Castro regime
might be recruited but we
advised would never activate at all.
venture) goes window shopping along
San Juan de Letram often might be approachable
(g) Only two Cubans were invited to the French Ambassador's
Residence on Bastille Day (14 July)
Embassy,
are to see The French
Embassy. To
1 is a close of the
and at this the 
Dudly,

at this, become clear that is
would be an
designed to
(h) Sovereign Youth ed at ESCAB
wants

201-329609

(i) turned over to E (for potential) a handbill put out

by the Esquela Normal Rural de Santa Theroba Coahuila
dated 10 June 1963, explaining that schools invitation
that.
472.
1.
(j) turned over a pornographic cartoon (for return) dis-
tributed by pro-Castro elements in Tampico. Copy not
attached.
(k) 

4. L-9 reports that he is very well with the now ambassador who

(l) to
for the
gathering method still to keep his eyes and ears open and ask no questions
5.

