14-00000
104-10171-10020
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO Chief of Station, JHNAVE UFG
INFO Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

FROM Chief of Base, JMBAR

SUBJECT JMZIP/KUTUBE/KUDES/KUSODA
DRS Internal Codes/Sources and Companion

PROCESSING
ACTION MAPPED FOR ROLLING
NO ROLLING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED HEADQUARTERS DRE CAN JUDGE ROLLING
ABSTRACT MICROFILM

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
A. JMBAR-0270
B. WAVE-1220 (not sent DIR) MICROFILMED
OCT 2 1 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.

1.  Forwarded under separate cover per reference B request are Subject
    codes and related information. Please note that the second code does not
    contain the "LL" of the Spanish alphabet as does the first code. If
    accessable, sources should be contacted for code-check.

2.  In submitting the information the three DRE representatives
    requested to be interviewed jointly. Spokerman for the group was Adolfo 04
    BARRO Garcia, A fourth refugee, Rafael SANTANA Avares, entered PBPRIME with
    the DRE representatives.

    a. Adolfo BARRO Garcia aka DPOB - 30 Sep 1943, Quemado de
    04,08
    Cuines, Las Villas. Subject was a student until April 1961, He is a
    member of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) in Sagua la
    Grande, Las Villas and is the regional coordinator for the DRE in the
    area comprised of Corralillo, Rancho Veloz, Quemado de Cuines, Isabela
    de Sagua, Sitiecito, Sitio Grande, Cifuentes, Amaro, En Crucijada,
    Calabasete de Sagua. The DRE has approximately 1000 man in this area
    but they lack arms and other equipment. A sending and receiving set
    (radio) and other intelligence equipment is needed. Lina to
    Cita la MADRID aka FAUSTINO is the present coordinator in Sagua la Crande,
    Las Villas. The purpose of their trip to PBPRIME is to contact Manuel
    SALVAT in Miami, Florida. They plan to return to Cuba.

    b. Fernandes ARCO Hernandez aka ADAT DPOB - 21 Aug 1943, Sagua
    04,08
    la Grande, Las Villas.

    c. Manuel Antonio ALZUCARAY Perez aka HECTOR DPOB - 18 Jan 1943,
    04,08
    Santa Clara, Las Villas.

Attachments: 1 a/s, uvere -
19-120-19.

Distribution:
DATE SYPED DATE DISPATCHED
3 - JMWAVE w/1 att. Gb/
7 Feb 1962 7 Feb 1962
3 - HD v/1 att. REFERRED TO CS COPY DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFKA-1
19 - 120 - 18 HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19 - 120 - 33
CLASSIFICATION 19 - 120 - 19
SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

-2-

d. Rafael SANTANA Alvarez DPH - 7 November 1932, Las Villas.
04
Subject was a chauffeur (taxi-driver) and plans to be at/7750 Normandy
Drive, Apt. 2, Miami, Florida, while in PBPRIME. He stated that he resided
08 at Bernaza No. 210 Havana, Cuba. Though he was not a member of any
clandestine group, he assisted the MRR group in Caibarien and just recently
assisted others to leave the country. Subject and the aforementioned
persons departed Cuba on board the Cuban /V BALAICA ESTRELLA Jonied by INRA 08
but operated by Subject's brother Israel SATAJA Alvares, who dropped them 06
at Anguila and returned to Cuba to bring others out that were supposed to
meet them, but they missed their connections. Subject's group departed
from Isabela de Sagua, Las Villas 24 January 1962 at approximately 2400 hours.
On 22 December 1961 a group of approximately twenty militiamen and men from
the ORI were drinking in various bars and displaying the Communist flag.
Anyone who appeared to be unsympathetic was beaten. They also went to
the homes of some who wore suspected of being anti-Castroites and would
beat them also. They beat up approximately twenty persons. This took
place in Caibarien, Las Villas. Subject was one of many arrested between
22 and 26 December. When they were taken to a restaurant across from
the G-2 office, Subject managed to escape. The other three men that
came with him on the boat managed to hide him until they made good
their escape by boat. Subject lists the following as G-2 agents:

Antonis OBREGON Correa, Mayor of Calbarien, Las Villas
Une TOYO (nickname) is the head of the G-2 in Caibarien
(fnu) VILLASON is the assistant to TOYO
Evaristo HERRERA, who also works on a boat transhipping sugar from Cayo of Cuban
Franges to Caibarien, Las Villas
Roberte ROJOS aka ESPONJO
Luciano DETAJA, Juanito HESTAJA and four other brothers
Guillermo SANTANA, Andres SATANA, Lorenzo SATAMA

Subject further stated that Pedro HOTERO, Alejo HOTERO and Eduardo 06,06,06
MONTERO are active members of the MRR group in Caibarien, Las Villas.
06 Francisco ROBLE is the active coordinator for the MRR in this area.
Andres and Guillermo GONZALEZ (fishermen) are informers for the G-2
in Caibarien. They will propose that they help Cubans get out of the
country. When all preparations are set up, the fishermen inform on
those wanting to leave. The same applies to Jose (Pepe) MIRO, Evelio
GARCIA and Lado CUMA, all of Caibarien, Las Villas. Subject also stated
that the 381st and 382nd Battalion of militia are presently in Caibarien,
Las Villas. Subject states he is willing to return to Suba and work for
the underground. (Source Comment: If this subject is to be used in any
manner, please be reminded that he claims to have escaped from the G-2.
He may be trying to infiltrate the groups here or he may be trying to
find out how the DRE operates in the Las Villas zone.

End of Message
MICROFILMED
FEB 1 1952
DOC. MICRO. SER.
19-120-19

14-00000
MICROFILMED
OCT 2 1 1968
DOC. MICRO.. BER.
SECRET.
DRS INTERNAL CODES
List Gods they will use is the followings
Banda de 40 meters
7,500 kilocyclos
Clave Leon
Agente - 13 (identified only as "Elidio
radio technician)
Breadcast times 8:30a.m. or 8:30 p.m. Las Fillas
The code name to be used whan transmitting will to CUFARILLERO
A B C D E F G H I J
Pas 185 ARADO 000-70 DIA LIBRE LOMA 90 000-22 LUZ 00-14 CALMAN
X Y Z O P Q R S T U V
130-3 LUNA 0023 SAPO CARRO 122-9 8-180 00-78 CATO SILLON 51-3 614
LL
33-1 COTORRA 109-18 802-3
COOK FOR NUMBERS:
1. 145-20. 2. 893-104 3. CANON -00 4. 657-6 5. 00-21.50 6. ALCATRAZ

2. SICLON 8. 2000-17 9. 56-00 0. 34-18
    Removed from Project
    Subj file
    CS Classification:19-120-19
    JOB $66-604
    Box:/
    Folder/

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA
Second code to be used-they will use one code one day and the other the next:
Samo baud
Samo frequency
Same time
Code's name "FUEGO" to indicate which code is being used
Agente - 13
Las Villas
The same code nano GUERRILLO will be used when transmitting
Δ. 124 H PALOMA §. CIELO U. 419
B. PEZ L. 644 O. RIO V. 000-4
C. LUNA-LLENA J. 35 P. 93.2 W. 00-61
D. CAIN Κ. 17-23 Q. 51-33 X. 6790
E. 172 L. 43-4 R. 125 Y. PIANO
F. BORRO Μ. 180-9 S. CAMPU Z. CALMAN
G. 840 N. 14-63 T. 340-5
at. 1 is UFKA-1 PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA
126.1962 19-120-19

SECRET
-3-
Places that they can dolivar arms and equipsent or other material:
CAYNAL (ALACRAN) AMUILAS - (LUNA LLADA). ROQUE ANY - (LOXOFORA)

Code for numberss
1. TIBURON 2. 963 3. 1,500 4, 10,000 5. CAYON 6. JOSE 7. FIERRO
8. RATON 9% MOTOR 0. 11

thenever making any phone calls they will use the following codos
LLAMAR A SRA. MARCO - SALADO A ISARELA DE SAGA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAN ANTONIO
OHIBGA EN MIAMI-AL HABLAR: RECUERDOS A NIVOS Y PADRE.

ESTOT HABLANDO CATO SAL
PLYTANDO ROQUE KEY
RECIBI CARTAS IAL BIA - PARA RECOJE

SECRET

SECRET
DRE EXTERNAL CODES

Einat Code they will use is the followings
Banda de 40 meters.
7,509 kilecycles
Clave Leon
Agente - 13 (identified only as "Elidio
radie technician)
Brendenst simes 8:30 am, or 8:30 p.m. Las Fillas
The code nase to be used when trossmitting will be CUERRILLERO
A B C D E F G H I J
PAS 185 ARADO C00-70 DIA LIBRE LOA 90 000-23 LUZ 00-14 CANA
X Y Z O P Q R S T U V
130-3 LUNA 0023 SAPO CARRO 122-9 8-180 00-78 GATO SILLON 51-3 เจ

COD3 FOR XIDABERS:
1. 345-20. 2. 893-104 3. CANON -00 4. 657-6 5. 00-21.50 6. ALCATRAZ
2. SICLON 8. 2000-17 9. 56-00 0. 34-18
    -
PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA
Second Code to be used-they will use one code one day and the other the nexts
Same baud
Same frequency
Samo tich
Code's aane ruscom to indicate which code is being used
Agente - 13
Las Villas
The same code nase GUERRILLO will be used when transmitting
Δ. 124 Η PALOMA 3. CIELO U. 419
B. PEZ 1. 654 O. 810 V. 000-4
C. LUNA-LLENA J. 33 P. 93.2 W. 00-62
D. CALN Κ. 17-23 4. 51-33 X. 6790
E. 172 L. 43-4 R. 125 Y. PLAXO
F. BURRO . 180-9 S. CAMPO Z. CALMAN
G. 840 R. 14-63 T. 340-5

PUNTO ESTAK PALABRA Y PALABHA

SECRET
-2-
Places that they can deliver aras and equipment or other material:
CATSAL - (ALACRAN) ANGUILAS - (LUNA LLIDA) ROQUE KEY - (LOCOMOTORA)

:
Code for sumberss
1. TIBURON 2. 963 3. 1,500 4. 10,000 5. CANON 6. JOSE 7. FIERRO
8. RATUN 9. MOTOR 0. 21

thenever making any phone calls they will use the following codes
LLAMAR A SKA, KARCO - SALADO A ISABSLA DE SACUA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAN ANTONIO
ORTECA EX HIAMI-AL HABLAR: RECUERDOS A NIVOS Y PADRE.

ASTOT HABLANDO - CAYO SAL
PLYPALDO - ROQUE KEY
RECIBI CARTAS TAL DIA - PARA RECOJE
SECRE!
19-120-19
