104-10180-10042

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIOR TO FILING
1. Fill in Sect 2 on back Detach back Hap and forward: RID
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant achon taken or comments requir ing, preservation

FROM RID

RID/ EXT. 4039
CASO TUBE GT-7

TO ACTION BRANCH
It dire no and hile shojyngre, pot proper, insert proper lile no below and forward document to BID'AN.
Place a FILE NO

TO | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICERS INITIALS
----------------------------------------------------------------------
1. | M. Varies | 5 |
2. | Vasiries | |
3. | Ennis | |
4. | David | 8 May |
5. | Bunke | |
6. | Mari, Panch | |

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

"Ben your ageat"

Se.
attonhand shers

MICROFILMED
APR 23 1970
DOC. MICRO SER.

RID FI
------------------------------------------------------------------
TRACE | ABSTRACT
REQUEST | 3

FILE TITLE

FILE NLIMBER | 19-5-42
DOCUMENT DATE | 14070
DOCUMENT NUMBER UNDA 34862
DATE MICROFILVIO 14/9/76

SECRET 1401
14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIRICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR DIDEXING
XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

TO | Chief, WH/COG |
INFO Chief of Statión, WH/MIAMI Chief, Domestic Operations AN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM | Chief of Base, New York |
SUBJECT TYPIC/AMROSE/DONOPS | BICROFILNM
Current Analysis of Cuban Uy Mission and DGI Center in New York
REFERENCES ACTION REQUIRED
Action Required: FYI

1. Transmitted herewith are one copy each for C/WH/COG and COS/WH/ MIAMI of the April 1970 Cuban Official Presence Listing as prepared by the local, LNERCO Cuban Squad. The under-signed has added on the 201 numbers, indicated CUIS affiliation, added two names, and deleted one. The departure dates för several CMUN personnel also are noted. The listing, thus, is valid as of 10 April.
2. According to LNERGO, only two CMUN working wives are officially Carried on LNERGO records, Maria BERMUDEZ Garela, wife of Jose Raul) VIERA Linares (201-328953), and Consuelo HORTA Larrinaga, wife of. BERMUDEZ, because of the impending departure of the VIERAs on 14 April, can be deleted from the listing. Additionally, other CMUN wives work or have worked in the past on a sporadic basis (such as Teresita FERNANDEZ Arango, wife of NGI Center Chief Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez (201-330002). However, only BERMUDEZ and HORTA of late have been regular local employees.
3. Addressces will note the preponderance of DGI personnel on the CMUN roster. Of the 18 (excluding Rolando PEREZ Alfonso) personnel on board as of 10 April, 12 are DGI. Interestingly enough, 6 non-DGI personnel is a higher number than has been the rule over the past several years; at one point there were only 3 non-DGI personnel, including the Ambassador/Permanent Representative. Of these, 12, two (DRAKE and CADALSO) are code clerks detailed to the DGI Center from the DSE. Two others (REYES Goicochea and SANTIAGO) are the "architect"

Attachment:
As stated Para 1 h/w. ::
::
Distribution:
2 Chief, WH/COG, w/att. h/w.
2 Chief of Station, MIAMI, w/att. h/w.
2 Chief, DO, w/o att.

CROSS REFERENCE TO AS COPY
--------------------------------------------------------
11200-9-52 DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UNDA-4862
CLASSIFICATION DATE
SECRET 13 April 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER 9-500 14-5-42
14-00000
CLABCATIO

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
SECRET

CONSUDAL ADUER UNDA-4862

and the mason assigned here temporarily to work on the CMUN secure rooms and security systems (see previous reporting for details). Thus, 8 personnel are left för espionage operating purposes. Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (20)-332665) probably serves now as the Deputy co Center Chief PRINDES. Allowing for the impending departures of Rolando PEREZ Alfonso, Jose Raul VIERA Linares, and Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin, the DGI, Center will now consist of:
j
Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

Orlando PEREIRA Gonzalez

Miguel Manuel SANTANA Fraiz

Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez

Ruben Rafael FRANCO Gonzalez
ست باشه

Raul REYES Goicochea
Roberto SANTIAGO Humet

Pablo DRAKE Capiro

Rafael CADALSO. Bandomo

LA CO PROCESSED

1. As will be noted, the departure of Jorge REYES Vega (in March) and the impending departures of VIERA and PINERO will change the complexion of the DGI Center considerably. If they are not replaced for one reason or another (per other reporting), the DGI Center will have but four experienced and competent Case Officers at its disposal. Of these, PRENDES spends by far the bulk of his time inside the office pursuing his role of supervisor/manager. RODRIGUEZ is a handler: GELABERT and SANTANA are mainly concerned with operational Support tasks -- CELABERT is the Center's best counter-surveillant, and SANTANA is the technical "expert" of the Center. PEREIRA is a handler, but his abilities are rather limited in this regard, per Base and LNERGO information and observations. Should the departees not be replaced, the Center may be forced de facto into a cutback of operational activity.
2. We shall watch with interest the behavior patterns of the DGI Center in the near future, in light of the above and in light of other recent reporting re the status of the DGI abroad.

Howard G. FIGALAN

FORM
4530 (4.61)
PREVIOUS CLASSIRICATION
SECRET CTION PAGE MO
2
14-00000
SECRET 4P
Cuban Mission to the United Nations 6 East 67th Strest New York, New York April 6, 1970,
ALARCON QUESADA, RICARDO
FR Position/201- Pet. 19 Ambassador
Residence 347590 1175 York Ave., Apt. 6D, NYC
Phone
Dependents: PL 2-0123 MARGARCIA PEREZ, wife; (Reonded) MARGARITA ALARCON, daughter; BIANCA MAZA PEREZ, mother-in-law

ALOM GIL, JULIO 17 First Secretary
Position (201- Cuban Mission to the Un
Residence 851731) 33-4881st St., Apt. 10L (Realed) 593-0480
Phone
Dependents MARTINELA LARRALENDI RODES, wife, born 4/10/36; LENA ROSA ALOM
LARRALELDI, daughter, born 11/22/64; LAURA ESTHER ALOM
ANTONIO LARRRAFIDI, daughter, born 5/11/67

DE SOUZA, ANTONIO (20-354048) 1.10 Adviser
Position -201-UNR 83-10 35th Ave., Ant. 63, Jackson Heights, IMY
Residence TW 9-9282 (R coded)
Phone
Dependents ALICIA MATEOS DE SOUZAware: ANA MARIA, daughter, born 2/7/54; ALICIA ANTONIA, daughter, bern 6/23/51

DRAKE CAPIRO, PABLO 19 Attache
detailed DGI- Position (201- Cuban Mission to the Wi
Residence 815821) 6 Ε. 67 Στ., NYC
Code clerk Phone
arried
october 69
Dependents CONSUELO HORTA LARRIAGA, wife (R Codes)
Hiwattle B SECRET CS COPY

MICROFILMECESSED APR 23 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER. 19-5.47
14-00000
SECRET
FRANCO GONZALEZ, RUBEN RAFAEL Pet. 19 Attache
Position 201- 370 E. 69 St., Apt. 5K
DGI Residence 857465
Phone
GELABERT MARTINEZ, JUSTO 17 Attache
CESAR
DGI Position (201- 61-15 97th St.
Residence 839221 Elmhurst, NY, Apt. 15M 699-5526
Phone

JIMENEZ PADRON, FLORENTINO 10 Actocine (chauffeur)
FR Position
Résidence 1953) Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
(Reeded)
Phone AGUEDA MARTINEZ GARCIA, wife, born 4/15/37
Dependents
MORALES CARBALLO, PEDRO A. 17 Counsellor, CMUN
Position
Residence (2015 400 8. 55th St., Apt. 16 593-2431
(Readed)
Phone
Dependents 850951) MARTA ANGELINA DE LOS REYES, Wife, born 2/2/41: ARIANELA MORALES DE LOS REYES, daughter, born 11/10/64; PEDRO CESAR MORALES DE LOS REYES, son, born 7/31/69; ISABEL BERMUDEZ DIEZ, born 4/18/07

PEREIRA GONZALES, ORLANDO F. 19 First Secretary
DGI Position
Residence (201- Cuban Mission to the UN 6 . 67 St., NYC
( UN 1-5250
(2 coded)
Phone
Dependent 848605) MARIA DE LOS ANGELES LOPEZ CANAS, wife, 3/1/47
PERES ALFONSO, ROLANDO 19 Attache
Position Cuban Mission to the UN
6 Ε. 67 S., HYC
(R COECD)
tailed DGI- Residence 836757) UN 1-5250
Codicclerk phone
(R COECD)
Dependent, Wearing 0/14 11 Horn/1970 -
Pes -2-

SEURET:
:
14-00000
PRINERO ETRIN, Pמים סתתני Pet. 19 Third Secretary
SECRET
DOI Position (201- 401 E. 74th St., Apt. אל, NYC 861-2468
(524376)
JUANA CRUZ FERNANDES, wife
liaving soon Dependent Phone
PRENDES GUTIERREZ, ORLANDO 19 First Secretary
DGI
- Position 201 E. 66th St., Apt. 7H, MYC 249-0024
(201- (R cated)
Residence (201- TERESTA FERNANDEZ ARANGO DE PREIDES, wife
Center Chief Pinone 330002)
Dependent

REYES GOICOCIDA, RAUL 19 Attache
Position
DCI Residence : 201- Cuban Mission to the UN 6 E. 67th St., NYC UN 1-5250
859874)
HREYES)
DELETE: Phone

REYES VEGA, JORGE E. 20 Second Secretary
DGI Position
departed PCS on Phone 737-05
(201- 15 V. 72nd St., Apt. 17H, NYC 816437)
7 March 1970 Depeniente RIFTA

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO 110 First Secretary
Position
DGI Residence (201)
ER Phone 332665) Park Plaza Apartments 61-15 97th St., Elmhurst, NY, Apt. 154 699-5526

SANTANA PRAIZ, MIGUEL M. 1.9 Attache
Position
DGI Residence 345 E. 81st St., NYC, Apt. 5J UN 1-5662
(201- (816439)
Phone

SANTIAGO HUMET, ROBER 201- 19 Attache
Position
DCI Residence 854875) Cuban Mission to the 6 E. 67 St., NYC UN 1-5250
(
Phone -3-

14-00000

VIERA LINARES, JOSE Pet. Counselor
DGI
Position (201- 12 305 8. 72nd St., Apt. 2E, NYC
(Residence 328953) AG 9-2077 (Bealed)
Phone
Raving PCS Dependent's
-14 April 19702ccc MARTA DERIJVIZ GARCIA, fe; JULIO ANTONIO VIERA Y DENUDEZ, son: ISABEL DEATRIZ VIETA y BERMUDEZ, daughter.

ADD ON: 17 ATTACHE
FERNANDEZ Padilla, Victoria
POSITION 220 E. 63rd St., Apt. 5 M, NYC
RESIDENCE
PHONE (340661)
DEPENDENTS None
Cadalso Bandomo (n), Rafael Attache
dilebi DGI- POSITION (201- CMUN, 6 E. 67th St., NYC UN 1-5250 (Reades)
Code clerk RESIDENCE
Phone
Arrived eatles DEPENDENTS NANCY GUIROLA MAZAURRIETA, wife; RAFAEL CADALSO GUIROLA, son; MARLEN CADALSO GUIROLA, daughter 866098)
April 19700

-4- 14-5-47
081

DATE
:
29 MAR-62

TO
: DIRECTOR

FROM
ACTION:
INFO
: MEXICO CITY.
IM 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
JO SECRET

ROUTING

5
31

MAR. 29 05072 62

ROUTINE

IN 10495

TDCS-3/506, 346
RATA 1962

COSER.
SUPDATA LINLUCK FROM VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ
RE PARA TWO PGT

SENT CONGRATULATIONS TO LINLUCK FOR HIS WORK AND OFFICIALLY
CONFIRMED FACT HE SHOULD CONTINUE HANDLE E'XCLUSIVELY PURCHASE
WEAPONS AND MILITARY EQUIPMENT BUT TO BE VERY CAREFUL ABOUT HIS
PERSONAL SECURITY. FILED 290005Z REPORT CLASS SECRET NOFORN
CONTINUED CONTROL HMM 6283. GUATEMALA/MEXICO SUBJECT VIEWS OF THE
PGT ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA DO 24 MARCH 62 PADA
MEXICO, MEXICO CITY 24 MARCH 62 APR 2 PERSON (B) WITH GOOD
CONNECTIONS IN GUATEMALAN EXILE CIRCLES IN MEXICO.

INDEX

IW COMMENT:

NO SEPARATE TABLE ISTRATION IS BEING MADE OF THIS. TOCS.

WH/REG
WH/3/G

RELEASING IWO:

JOHN ELL

DATE DISTRIBUTED.
MAR 29 15032 62
SECRET

TDCS
PRECEDENCE"
ROUTINE
PRIORITY

BASED ON: Hмм 6283
LINLUCK

LIAISON 2676.2
35-9-9

Copy No.
1
DUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY:

This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonege Love, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. TH and M the transmission ne revolaties of which in any manner to as unauthorised person la probled by law,
SECRET

When Friled in) COCLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS,
NOFORN/CONT
(2):
COUNTRY GUATEMALA/MEXICO
SUBJECT
PGT VIEWS ON THE ROUTFICAL SITUATION IN "GUATEMALA
DATE OF
INFO. 24 MARCH 1962:
PLACE &
ROL
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/506, 346
DATE DISTR 29 MARCH 1962.
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES IN 10495
6283
FIELD REPORT NO. Hмм
DATE ACO. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY. (24 MARCH 1962)

APPRAISAL 2
SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
PERSON (B) WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG GUATEMALAN EXILES IN MEXICO.

1. VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ, HEAD OF THE PARTIDO GUATEMALTE-CO
DEL TRABAJO (PGT/GUATEMALAN COMMUNIST PARTY) AN MEXICO, SAID ON
24 MARCH THAT THE POT IN GUATEMALA REGRETS THE WAY IN WHICH THE
GUERRILLA FIGHT HAS DEVELOPED THERE. ACCORDING TO THE PGT, THE
RESULTS OF THE GUERRILLA FIGHTING HAVE NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE
THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP (MEMBER OF THE 13 NOVEMBER 1960. ATTEMPT TO
OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT) HEADED BY MARCO ANTONIO
YON SOSA, IS NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLITICAL CONCEPTS OF THE
COMMUNIST STRUGGLE. THE POT ALSO REGRETS THAT THE COMMUNISTS AND
MEMBERS OF THE PARTIDO DE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIO (PUR-EXTREME

LEFTIST PARTY) HEADED BY CARLOS PAZ TEJADA WERE INTERCEPTED AND
SECRET

jner
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 18NS
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
35-9-8
14-00000
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
A

SECRET (When Filled in) NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
TDCS-3/506,346 IN 13495

PAGS
2
FORCED TO FIGHT WHEN CONDITIONS WERE NOT ADVANTAGEOUS FOR THEM. 9100 ACCORDING TO THE PGT THE RESULTS WERE DISASTROUS, WITH THE LOSS OF "MIDDLE RANK COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERS AND NATIONAL LEADERS." THE PGT CONSIDERS IT A "MIRACLE" THAT PAZ TEJADA WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE. HOWEVER, THE PGT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGUEL YDIGORAS FUENTES, PRESIDENT. OF GUATEMALA, WILL SOON FALL.

1. THE MAIN HOPE OF THE PGT NOW HINGES ON THE ACTIONS OF THE GUERRILLA GROUP ORGANIZED AND ARMED IN MEXICO. (FIELD COMMENT: IT HAS BEEN REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO HAD CROSSED THE MEXICAN/GUATEMALAN BORDER SUCCESSFULLY AND HAD ESTABLISHED A SECOND GUERRILLA FRONT.) THE PGT BELIEVES THAT IT SHOULD CONCERN ITSELF WITH THE SURVIVAL OF THIS GROUP "EVEN IF THE POLITICAL CRISIS SHOULD ELIMINATE YDIGORAS". IT BELIEVES THAT THIS GROUP SHOULD CONTINUE TO OPERATE IN THE MOUNTAINS IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH AND STABILIZE ANY DEMOCRATIC REGIME.

H 69. 6 I NOR
as
RODRIGUEZ

LOPEZ, (THIRD SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY. RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT "THE PERGON FROM CUBA WHO IS GOING TO TAKE OVER RELATIONS WITH GUATEMALA HERE IN MEXICO, STILL HAD NOT ARRIVED." RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERRE THAT HE PLANNED TO SEE MAJOR ALFONSO PRERA, A LEADER OF THE MARCH.

NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO, ON 24
62
4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI I&NS CINCARIB CINCLANT.

SECRET (END OF MESSAGE)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTI JED CONTROL

29 62

35-948
14-00000

SECRET 10/ NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RET TO & INC
50

CLASSIDY TO FIRE NO
TO NO
FILE BID
DESTROY (
16
RI
PLAODICTION CLOUD, ADVANCE
COPY
FIME

Atl
TO: UNIT SUAZO
VR FILE DAP DIY, CC, (/11/14 DC/WM/SA PIAN

T
R SECRET 2323394
R 1 YO DIR CITE WAVE 5149
24128844

DYVOUR PERUNΞΗ ANKACE ZRKNICK
COPY
INDEXED AND CO MATCHED
COPY
RICOPY

ITTAL
TG

RECORD OR TYP The fo auth
dx

Many Bril
Sign-d:
R.O. #
Note: it re
12:1 FORM
1-04 1389

CASCHETE Perious BLITIONS
LINKOE

RI COPY
اللها
RI CS COPY

#201-33.206.5 23 NOU 64 761-355759
RI COPY COPY (35)
14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
4 SECRET

VR 7.

33
...