14-00000
104-10172-10107
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: #62-1161-W Volume 44 40
Vol. II
201-128561

INCLUSIVE DATES: [Date unclear] 57 - [Date unclear] une 55

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE | REQUESTED BY | SIGNATURE OF
RECEIVED | RETURNED | (PRINT NAME) | REVIEING OFFICIAL
3/7/78 | 5/7/78 | Betsy Wolf | Betsy Wolf
15 May 84 |   | TOMANNA SMITH | Sinte
23 May 84 | 23 May 84 | " | "

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

VOL II

14-00000
DERIN Maurice Hymal

FBI +
misc other Docs
3rd Agency

201-128561

14-00000
SECRET

DOE-17437

Chief CI/SRS | 22 September 1955
S. H. Johnson
James A. PERRY
190178

James A. PERRY, Jr., mailed two letters from Washington, D. C., on
29 June 1955, one to his father, and another to Severino D. GOMEZ; however,
in so doing, PERRY placed the letter to his father in the envelope addressed
to GOMEZ, and the letter to GOMEZ in the envelope addressed to his father.
When the letters were received by PERRY, Sr. and GOMEZ, both noting the
error, they exchanged letters. However, GOMEZ considered the contents of
the letter he had at first received important enough to turn over to his
brother M. Leal GOMEZ, who in turn referred it to the Boston Office of
the FBI.

The letter, in substance, indicated that while PERRY was serving in
South America, under cover for this Agency, he had revealed his true status
to his wife's father, EN CONSALTES, on a visit to South America, and who
later had revealed this information to PERRY's father. In correspondence
following PERRY's father having become knowledgeable of PERRY's true status,
he indicates that therein he might have intimated that his work was not so
hush-hush, and that on that basis PERRY's father "had dropped his card"
in effect, and had told others of PERRY's true status. This letter was a
warning to PERRY's father that he should attempt to correct the indiscretion
of revealing PERRY's status while he was in South America. The letter refers
to other letters which PERRY indicates contained information revealed through
indiscretion on his part, and which he asked his father to destroy.

According to our records, PERRY was granted an Operational Clearance
on 22 May 1953, for use as a witting informant or as a contract agent on
anti-Communist stunt activities. He was used as a contract agent from
September 1953 to February 1955 in Brazil under DIS cover.

He is of Portuguesa extraction, and he or his father had changed the
family name to SALVES. He gave his age as thirty, and states that he is
Western University. He had [text unclear] prior to attendance at North

He attended Northeastern University from 1947 to 1951 and received
an AB Degree; Boston University from 1951 to 1952 where he received an
MA Degree in Latin American Regional Studies, and at Vanderbilt University
from 1952 to 1953 where he pursued a Ph.D.

[Text unclear] as not more
[Text unclear]

vivint file con
201-1138567

14-00000
SECRET

the letter intended for PERRY's father, advised the FBI that he, GOMEZ,
had attended Boston University during the period PERRY was studying
under HALPERIN. GOMEZ was of the opinion that the HALPERIN-PERRY
relationship was more than just the professor-student type because PERRY
saw HALPERIN during the evenings, but never told GOMEZ what he discussed
with HALPERIN.

GOMEZ also advised that about June 1953, just before PERRY's depart-
ure for Rio de Janeiro, PERRY called HALPERIN on the telephone and at
that time HALPERIN was under investigation. PERRY told GOMEZ that
HALPERIN was in a predicament, and that he, PERRY, felt sorry for him.
Earlier PERRY had told GOMEZ that HALPERIN had a lot of influence in
Washington, and was going to get a job for PERRY.
133-135561
According to the FBI, the HALPERIN mentioned above, appears to be
identical with Maurice Hyman HALPERIN, former employee of OSS, who was
identified in November 1945 by Elizabeth BENTLEY as having furnished
information for transmittal to the Soviets.

PERRY recently contacted this Agency requesting permission to state
that he had worked for the Agency in his application for employment with
USIA. WH Division, to whom this request was forwarded, was advised that
PERRY was not to disclose his past employment with this Agency.
WH Division, in turn, informed Security of their desires that USIA be
informed of PERRY's past connections with this Agency.

Security, on the basis of the above request by WH Division, contacted
the appropriate person in USIA and advised them on a controlled basis of
PERRY's former affiliation with this Agency.

S. H. Johnson
SRS/SEJ:pal
201-128561

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled In)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
American Communists in Mexico and Their | RI FILE NO. 50 | 4 | 120 | 30
Contacts | DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
HM-1300 | 31 Oct 55
ANALYST | SOURCE CRYPTONYM | DATE OF INFO. | EVALUATION
D. Heron | DATE PROCESSED | LITHOS PHERS | B-Doc
| 13 Sept 57 | DISSEMINATED IN | DATE

[X] CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
Report from Mexico City, Mexico
Source: LIFEAT/LITHOSPHERS
Date of Infor 12 Sept - 21 Oct 55

VERBATIM:

The following information concerning American Communists in Mexico and their
contacts has been developed.

1.  On 12 September a meeting was held of stockholders in the ice cream business
which functions under the management of the American Communist, Robert STRAND. This
business is believed actually to be owned by the leading American Communist, Frederick
Vanderbilt FIELD. The meeting was held at the home of STRAND, and was attended by the
American Communists Maurice HALPERIN and Noah SEBORER and possibly by other stockholders

......

31 OCT 55
201-128561
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. | 201 - 185053
FORM NO. 867 (REV, 5-54)

SECRET

14-00000
CLASSFIED MESSAGE
DATE:
TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: CI
INFO: COP, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FIES, [Symbols unclear] 64, S/C 2
(DIR 13475 (OUT 25483)) 19 JUL 55 ROUTINE
CITE: DIRE
TO: MEXI

HOLD FOR IDEN DEDIR 1150 OUT 56504)

*

JAMES LEIGH WHITE BORN IWA VERMONT NEWSPAPER CORRESPONDENT
AND AUTHOR SINCE 1939, IN MEXICO CITY SUNE-AUGUST 1941, WIFE
MARIA CRUZ CARROCERA MIRTE HORN 191 SPAIN; SYLVIA AGELOFT,
MISTRESS OF ACQUES MORNARD AND REPORTEDLY IN MEXICO CITY

AT TIME TROTSKY MURDER, SISTERS LOA AND RUBY; CONSTANCA
DE LA MORA ALLEGEDLY KILLED IN GUATEMALA; FERNANDO DE LOS
RIOS BORN SPAN 1897, SPANISH REPUBLICAN AMBASSADOR TO U.S..

ORTED RECENT YEARS REPRESENTATIVE SHAN SH PUNTA
OF LEDERATION. MEXICO CITY: ALVAREZ DEL VAYO FORN SPAIN

1971 WAS ACTIVE SPANISH RESUGIE ACTIVITIES IN NEW YORK, SON
QUANN LONDON WWII; JULIAN CORKIN PROMINENT TROTSKYITEN
U.S. AND SPAIN IN 405. WRITER CLOSE TO TROTSKY PRIOR TO
MURDER: NANCY [Text unclear] REPORTED KEY CP OFFICIAL IN MEXICO
COORDINATING OFFICER
201-128561
SECRET
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
Copy No
RELEASING OFFICIA

14-00000
SECRET
DATE:
TO:
FROM:
CONF:
INFO:
(DIR 13470 (OUT 57188)) 19 JUL 55 PAGE 2
STAND OPERATED HOTEL MEXICO CITY WITH HUSBAND ARCILE

CHISTONE WHO WAS FORMERLY WITH LONDON NEW CHRONICLE AND

SAID TO BE IN RISSA AT PRESENT MAXIM LEIDER ALIS LEBERMAN

NOPN 897 WARSAW REPORTED LIVING CUERNAVACA, MEXICO IN

1951 WITH ALBERT NALTZ FORMERLY OF HOLLYWOOD, ACCUSED
BY CHAMBERS OF SETTING UP SOVIET COVER COMPANY IN 1934,
HAS HAD CONNECT ONS WITH ANNA SEGHERS AND BOUD VERGE, FRANK

JELLINEK AND HAN HOFFMAN WHO WAS REPORTEDLY TREATING

LEDER 1953 FOR PSYCHIATRIC DISTURBANCE. WIFE MINNA REPORTED
TEACHING ANER CAN SCHOOL MEXICO CITY 1953, REPORTED IN CONTACT
WITH NAURICALPERIN WAS RECIPIENT FROM POLSKI BANK
WARSAW 1953: VITTORIO VIDALI ALIAS CARLOS CONTRERAS HEAD OF

CP TRIESTE INTERMITTENTLY EN U.S. AND MEXICO DURING 1940'S.

SUSPECTED DIRECTED MURDER TROTSKY: POONELLE MARIA HOAN

(ILLACED OR FELLIACD) ALLEGEDLY ONE OF CORRESPONDING
SECRETARIES OF JUAN NEGEIN 1937-20, REPORTEDLY IN LONDON 1945
COORDINATING OFFICES
SECRET
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

RELEASING OFFICER
Copy No
14-00000

DATE:
TO:
FROM:
CONF:
INFO:
(DIR 13470 (OUT 57183)) 19 JUL 55 PAGE 3
PAID SUBSEQUENTLY IN MEXICO, RELATIVES IN (INCLOS) ATAIME

VILLACID, (2) QUEN VILLACID MARRIED TO FORMER SPANISH
REPUBLICAN DIPLOMAT JOSE JAREACO (3) РЕREZLACID WHO

WAS REPORTED IN MEXICO CITY 1943; FRANK ELL NECK
CORRESPONDENT OVERSEAS NEWS AGENCY 1943 IN MEXICO.

(END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET
RELEASING OFFICER
CHIEF, CI
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
Copy No

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
DATE:
TO:
FROM:
CONF:
INFO: COPY, DO/P-ILR, FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC, SR 3, FI RI
DIR 2678 (OUT 95521)251122 NOV 
INFO 175 (CM 23585)
OTOPOR:
A.  HALPERIN WAS AFFILIATED WITH NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
UGATS
B.
SITTING ON CITY UNICUT SA SOCIAL

TOP DEALS EASES SUCCESSIVE CRSTSTALEN WIDER

TOL DEALS LILLE SUCCESSIVE, CHRST STALEN UNDER

SECRET
201-128521
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS
COPY No.
RELEASING OFFICIA

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled 1n)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO. | 201 | 66549
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | DATE | 6 June 1955
HM-1117
Noah SEBORER and Family
ANALYST DATE PROCESSED SOURCE CRYPTONY DATE OF INFO EVALUATION
D Heron 9 Sept 57 LITHOSPHERE B-Doc
DISSEMINATED IN DATE
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
Report from Mexico City, Mexico
Date of Infor 12 Feb - 12 May 55

VERBATIM

II.  Contacts
Set out below is a listing of contacts known to have been made by Noah
and Anne SEBORER during the period covered in this report.

Maurice HALPERIN was dismissed from Boston University because of refusal to answer
questions before a Congressional Committee. With him in Mexico are his son, David, his
wife Edith and, at least during part of April, his or his wife's father. Noah SEBORER
suplied Yiddish newspapers for the father to read. The HALPERINS dined at the SEBORERS
14 Nay 1955. HALPERIN is believed to be engaged in the trucking transportation business
in connection with the firm E.A. Ojeda at Isabel la Catolica 38-610.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201-185053
FORM NO. 867 (REV. 5-54)

SECRET
