14-00000

104-10182-10007 : 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FALE TITLE/SUGEE/VOLFIE:
MPW: LEM:HUSSE -1, STÅ, EDUARDE -1, S11 3001-14
INCLUSIVE DATES:
1960-1921

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROON: 5

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD JCCICY DOCUMENTS
DATE DATE REVISED BY SIGHATURE
RECEIVED RETURNED (PRINT NAME) OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
manh 2 3/13/78 Lolie wizelman Felly
3/13/78 Lolie wyekman Fishe Wyekman

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

RELEASE 1994
REMEW PROGRAM
1826
7/1

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Eduardo WHITEHOUSE Insua 24 June 1971

1. On 22 June 1971. Mr. Ed Sullivan, WH/Security officer, informed DC/WH/COG that he had been advised by SOD that Mr. WHITEHOUSE was in Miami and had some information which he would like to pass to the Agency. Mr. WHITEHOUSE, a Cuban, was a pilot during the Bay of Pigs Invasion and was under contract with the Agency from November 1964 to April 1965 as a pilot under the WITHRUSH Project in the Congo. He has not worked for the Agency since that time.

2. Mr. Sullivan requested SOD to have Mr. WHITEHOUSE use the Domestic Contact Service channel in Miami for passing his information to us.

3. File: 201-300614.
Chris Hopkins WH/COG/SA

14-00000
ORIG: RICHARD HARRINGTON:ljo
UNIT: WH/2/HD&ES
EXT: 7163/1946
DATE: 23 JULY 1969
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY B PER INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
CONF: WHS FILE. VR. FILE IN CS FILE NO.
MESAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES 2
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALE SEEN BY
7
SECRET a
8

FLAKE COP. HOOP Esloc Sono a calopsaliczne.
TO (classification)
SECRET
2.3 (date and time filed)
(elite) (reference number)
CITE DIRECTOR
232811
「PRIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO PRIORITY TEGUCIGALPA, SAN SALVADOR IUSTEER ap (pics)

1. MORNING 23 JULY 1969, IUSTEER PHONED HOS CASE OFFICER AND STATED TEDDY WHITEHOUSE (201-300614) AND DA UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN ATTEMPTING HIRE CUBAN PILOTS MIAMI AREA TO FLY F-51 AIRCRAFT TO EL SALVADOR. IUSTEER SOURCES, WHO WERE FOUR CUBAN PILOTS WHO REFUSED OFFER, SAID WHITEHOUSE AND ASSOCIATE BEGAN RECRUITMENT EFFORT CIRCA 14 JULY 1969. WHITEHOUSE OFFERING DEPOSIT $20,000. IN PILOTS BANK ACCOUNT PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE FOR EL SALVADOR IF PILOT AGREES FILY PLANE TO ELSALVADOR AND IN COMBAT.
AB X FS
EX

2. IUSTEER PHONED INFO TO HQS CASE OFFICER WHEN UNABLE CONTACT WH/MIAMI. HQS ATTEMPTING RECONTACT IUSTEER VIA PHONE ORDER OBTAIN FOLLOWUP INFO INCLUDING IDENTITIES ANY PILOTS WHO HAVE ACCEPTED, NAME OF AMERICAN WHO WORKING WITH WHITEHOUSE, IDENTITY OF THEIR EL SALVADOR CONTACT, LOCATION OF PLANES, ETC. IUSTEER DUE DEPART. MIAMI BY END OF WEEK AND NOT AVAILABLE TO WH/MIAMI AFTER 25 JULY 1969.
MICROFILMED
SEP 1 C 1969
DOC. MICRO. SER.

CS COPY
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
CONTINUED

201-300614
GROUP
Excluded from a
Somegrading and
fessional sification
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

B201-283488 (OVER)
FD COPY NO.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER MICROFICHE

14-09000
ORIG:.
UNIT: :ד
DATE:
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION 3V
CONF:
TO Γ
FILE, VR,

(classification) SECRET
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 2
SECRET
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
6
7
INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

(date and ties filed) (alite) (reference number)
CITE DIRECTOR (pics)
33281

PAGE TWO
٦

3. REQUEST WH/MIAMI ADVISE ANY CONFIRMATION THIS REPORT AND ANY FOLLOWUP DATA FROM IUSTEER IF POSSIBLE OR OTHER SOURCES.
:

FILE: 201-283488 AND 201-300614. END OF MESSAGE

Rilet H. Life WILLIAM V. BROE C/WHD
C/SOD/AB Paul Gottke (in draft) WH/COG
RELEASING OFFICER
COPDENTNOLOSPICERS
JOHN C. MURRAY AC/WH/2
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
GROUP! SECRET COPY NO.
Excluded ham αυτοασίλε
grading
fectmallecetion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THESSUING OF IS PROHIBITED.

12-00000-

IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION NAME CHECK
DATE: 7 APRIL 1967
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, ROGELIO ENRIQUE

14-00000
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION NAME TRACE
DATE: 7 APRIL 1967
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO ROGELIO

14000000
Mr. Gerald Sounders
P.0. Box 831
Miami, Fla.

Dear Jerry: Miami, Fla. August 23 1965

Wish to thank you for your personal concern and satisfactory solution obtained in the finan- cial settlement of my case.

I consider it a privilege to have worked with you, cooperating in a small way to preserve De- mocracy in the Republic of Congo.

If I can ever be of service to the United States -beloved country of my ancestors- I would consider. it a high honor.

Do let me hear from you and feel sure that I am your devoted friend.

Sincerely, Eduardo J. Whitehouse

4+6 Ν. Ε. 39th St Miami, Fla.

MICROFICHE
(23 AUG 65
201-300614

14-00000
MEMORANDUM TO: Chief/KUCURL/HENGEN 20 August 1965

FROM : Edward W. LORENTZ
SUBJECT : Eduardo Whitehouse
REFERENCE : Dir-35418

1. Edward W. LORENTZ met with Eduardo Whitehouse on 17 August 1965, relative to finalizing the Whitehouse claim for monies still due from his previous contract. LORENTZ emphasized that he was authorized to pay monies due per contract through 7 April 1965, plus a four day layover in Rome during Whitehouse's return to the "U.S. This layover was due a Panam strike of which Whitehouse was 4.inadvertently delayed through no fault of his own.

2. The aforegoing authority is based on ref and calculated as follows:
A. Base Pay for March - USD 800.
B. Base Pay 7/30 for April - USD 186.66 plus USD equivalent of USD 41.00 for actual expenses while 2 days in Rome.
C. Total USD 1027.66.

3. Whitehouse although feeling that he should be allowed the full amounts due amounting to USD 1950.00 has accepted such adjud- ication of his claim. LORENTZ feels that possibly he was suffic- iently satisfied that he received any funds, that probably in his sense of fair play that the case might be considered closed. For the record, what medical treatment received by Whitehouse amounted to under USD 200. Το further complete the record the following attachments are enclosed:
A. Letter from Dr. Elkhoury.
B. Second letter from Whitehouse to Jack Anderson, Leop.
C. Letter from Whitehouse to LORENTZ.
D. Bills of actual charges in Rome.
Ε. Receipt from Whitehouse for final payment.
F. Station memo concerning newspaper inquiry.

C20AUG-65
201-300614

14-00000
:

4. Less than 24 hours after facing Whitehouse to advise him that his claim of USD 1950 had been reduced to 1027.66, Whitehouse reacted with the newspaper media in an exemplary manner when he could have reacted with a adverse feeling. The Subject despite difficulties encountered in the field with KUBARK advisors appears to be man of honor and certainly under controlled situations ASA professional pilot and could be an asset to KUBARK interests.
EV. Ferentz
Edward W. LORENTZ

14-00000
--
POLYCLINIQ Du DOCTEUR LENHOURY Avenue Voi LEOPOLOVIECE - اشارة Telephones Bolte Postaic Leo C

Le pussipea avori pripree pe polithos. fren of the orbals seus Va fertint
λι I mi decoom hup potenisins. Comare & charitimantina pus ami hire son tint als Rece bant, fire Di Mejohet house de unn dani d'am page from se on on il sin ben a mo dimus ne choang

201-300 614

14-50000

Col. J. Av.crson Lee civile Congo.

Darr Jack:
Hinni, Fic. June 10th 1565

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT
.3 C:
:- t

Mr. Jerry Sounders 1.C Box 231 Miami Int. Agor Xiami, Fia.

Dear Mr. Sounders: Miami, Fle. Ausust 13 19:5
Three months have passed by since my return from Leopoldville and as I explained to you in our rast meetings, the amounts corresponding to the basic tay of of March, Arcil and up to the 13th of May, when my contract expired- are still unpaid therefore lea- ving an outstanding balance of $1950.00 in my favor.

Although I appreciate your concern in this case, I wish to informe about certain facts concerning zy work in the Congo that will ex lain how every cent of the mentioned ancunt was earned.
:

When pilot Fausto Gomez was shot doun near Sunia -Dec. 17th 1964- that Air Base became paralized as two of the pilcas resigned and the only one remaining was ready to leave. Every one refused to take charge of the Bunia Base beeruse of the proximity of the re- bels, dangerous terrain, living conditions below stan- dards, improper food, etc. Under these adverse circums- tances I accepted the position of Chief Pilot and left the confortable quarters of Stanleyville. Arrived to Bunia Dec. 25th 1967 and next day reasumed full air of erations against the rebels flying two and three mis- sions per day as squadron leader with now unexperienced pilots. These pilots did not have shooting, combat ma- navering instruction, therefore I instructed then and also in Dead Reckoning, instrument flying, etc. We hit the enemy day by day Scrcing them to retreat to the ve- ry border of Northeast Congo. M. Godofrcid. Munengo -1- nister of the Interior- personally congratulated us for our accomplishements in behalf of the Congo.

When I became 111, due to improper food, parasites, etc.. I was ordered back to Lecpoldville for medical treatment. Unable to recover and having lost 25 pounds, Dr. Elki.cury suggested żę return to Mani for a more a- dequate treatment. Fhotostatic copy of certificate are attached. Loft Leopoldville April 3 1965 with the un- derstanding that zy contract was not being cancelled. I sincerely believe that my work and dedication thro- ughout the entire campaing in Fortheast Congo deser- ved the full payment of the mentioned contract.

Your consideration to this matter would be açırecia- ted.
:
;

Sincerely, E. J. 17:1itehouse

cc: Kr. H. R. Telford

14-00000
VIAXX SETTEMBRE 30 TEL. 463038
App. Ν. 4
Sig.
3

Appartamento
I 17 100
I Arrangiamento
Domestici
Piccola colazione
Lova Frutta
Caffetteria
Spremute
Colaziona

Pranzo •
RISTORANTE
Gelati
Pusticc. Sandwiches.
Vini
Liquori
Birra 55 23
Acquo Minerali
Bibite
Bar
Autobus
Magni
Coi
Riscaldamento
Biancheria Stiroria
Talefono

Totala dal giorno
Riporto
Totsie 5500
Riporto
Totsie 7578 5523
Pagamenti
Totala 244
Imposta d'entrata
Hallo di Quietanzs
Servizio
TOTALE GENERALE 42783

I Sigg. Chenti sono pregati di pagare il conta entro il giorno della prosentazione.

14-00000-

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT
A. BERGO REALE Roma VIA XX SETTEMBRE, 30

O. SONETTI Prop.
Sig.

Telefono interurbano Camara N. 40-1

LGE
Bollo
TOTALE بازی
23

201-300614. i

14-00000
ASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 20

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. LES FILE NO. FILE PICO Rετ. SECRET SEPHOCLCTION PROHIBITED
TO BRANCHO 5 DESTO SIG. PERSON-LUNIT NOTIFIED 6 7
FROM ACTION ADANCE COPY
SLIT SEDE ✓ RID COPY LIT TIME
FILE, IR, AFT, WH,128, 052
BY ISSUED
SECRET 1900482 19 Auc 55 IN 35137
DIR CITE VOVESS
CHAPPIE WITHRUSH SECUR PERUMEN
REF: WAVE 512435139)
IDENTITIES:. A. JANICE MULAYA, AKA JANICE ROMAN, CLAIMS SECRETARY TO IDEN B.
B. ROBERT ROGERS, NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY...

SECRET CF45105 5104 A JANICE MIYAYA AKA JANICE ROMAN 2 8 ROBERT ROGERS
NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY BT
SELMET

MICROFICHE
(19 AUG 65
-201-300614

14-00000
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
CLASSIE TO FILE NO. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ILE 40.
ετ. το PRAC
SIG.

FILE

DESTRO
CSFIED MESSAGE
PERSON UNIT NOTIF היו
ゲコカ 〒10
FROM

ACTION
ADVANCE CCPV
SCRE ✓ RID COPY LIT TIVL
FILERAFT NICOS FUSETED
COATFILS SECUR PROKEN
LOVENIZ MIAMI SELS

EDUARD TERUUSE AS CONTACTED & TELEPHONE ON ACG
-19 Ape 65 m 35139: OIDEN A REIRESENTING DEN BRENDESING AN INTERZICH AURPOSE
OSTAINING BACKGROUND INFO ON PEREN FRUTS IN CONTENUTION WITH
whitenorr Arenal DEN A TO 15
ROPOSED CHIP CC C
2. TUSTEER RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL.. PHIM DEN A REQUEST ING
SAME INFO. LUSTZER MOVISED ALTER E AS ACQUAINTED ON SOME
PMRUNEN FILES IN CONG AND N. CARNECTION AND COLD
MD NOTHING FINTHI
IN CONGO DE
ACTION PAGBAGOWE TO INTERVIEW
ENLARGE PROMEN A ZUSTLER
ANG OFFICIAL 858

SECRE
74,510
