-14-00000

SECRET

104-10187-10014 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

                                         MESSAGE FORM
INDEX                    SECRET
NO INDEX

                                              October 1964
         50-8-74/5
                                                Mexico
   DIRECTOR                  TO:
       WH 8                        TOEZ, Epong CZ/OA, VR, FILE
                       SIG CEN
      COPY
LIEMPTY

REF: MEXI 1307 (IN 96996)*

1. HDQS AGREES IN PRINCIPLE THAT LIMITED ELDG SHOULD ES RAZED RATHER THAN REPARED. YOUR PARA THREE PROPOSAL OF COMMERCIAL INCOME INETTING VENTURE WOULD IMMEDIATELY MARK THIS ASPECT OF LIEMPTY A PROPRIETARY WITH ATTENDANT SPECIAL ADMIN HANDLING. UHLESS THERE ARE OVERRIDING SECURITY AND OPS CONSIDERATIONS WE PEKTER HOT DO THIS. HOWEVER IF FINAL DECISION IS TO BUILD STORE AND TWO APARTMENTS, HDQS SUGGESTS LIMITED BE MADE SEPARATE (FROM LIEMPTY) PROPRIETARY SUPPORT PROJ IN ORDER REDUCK CONFUSION OF TWO TYPES ACCOUNTING UNDER ONE PROJ.

2. HDQS STRONGLY BELIEVES PREFERABLE SOLUTION WOULD BE HERKLY REBUILD HOUSE ON SAME LAND FOR OCCUPANCY BASEHOUSE KEEPERS. THIS WILL NOT INVOLVE PROPRIETARY. ALSO WOULD BE MORE SECURE FROM STANDPOINT SOV COUNTERMEASURES.

3. ALTERNATE SOLUTION IS SELL LIMITED PROPERTY TO LIMOUSING AT FAIR MARKET VALUE DETERMINED BY INDEPENDENT APPRAISAL WITH UNDERSTANDING HE BUILD AN APARTMENT ON SECOND FLOOR WHICH HE WILL LET US ON LONG TERM LEASE.

EXEX CONTINUED...

COORDINATING OFFIGRAL  RELEASING OFFICER
 SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
FORM 13890
GEOLD 1

---
14-00000

ONG.C. Bustos-Videla:jah

MESSAGE FORM
ВЕСВЕТ

BOUTING

1
UNIT.
INDEX
EXT
XIONG ON
DATS: PLE EN CS FILE NO

TO. N 13 721854
MON DIRECTOR
Page 8

1
CONS
ODE
TO
56997

1. BLUEPRINTS FOR ANY BUILDING TO BE CONSTRUCTED WITH KUBARK FUNDS MUST RECEIVE EDOS APPROVAL. THIS APPROVAL AND PROS ARKEOLENT MUST BE OBTAINED PRIOR TO ANY COMMITMENT FUNDS. ESTIMATED FIES FOR TOTAL APPROVAL AFTER RECEIPT PLANS IS HOPEFULLY TWO Mонтия. BOUBR SEOULD HOT JE RAZED UNTIL APPROVAL GRANTED,

BRO OF MESSAGR

WE Comment! LIMITED photo tasehouse which we parehases ises la deterior ating and Station suggests rase building and sobald with store en lat floor and two agto upstairs at cost of $85.000.

WH/BF Carter (draft)
SR/C/WE (draft)Layo
CI/OPS (draft) Overjorda
DDP/FG (draft) Morand
EN/FI/Eorton (draft)
C/TH/58/Brooks (craft
VH/Log/Malabon (Grast)

TH/COPS Food )

iw Hood
RAFORD W. HERBERT
AC/VID

مانه

SECARP
OFFICE
---
14-00000

CLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
. USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRE

SUBJECT: (Optional)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

KDFACTOR Project Amendment and Termination
FROM: H.E. Mull

EXTENSION NO
1973/4167

DATE
26 April 1973
Henry E. Mullo, WH/1/FI
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building).

DATE
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a time across column after each comment.)

C/WH/1 26  26
FY 72 FUNDS AVAILABLE

WH/B&F  273 K
FY 72 FUNDS AVAILABLE

WI/LOG

WH/SS 54-73
1973 funds will be made available
WH/Plans/Erna
11/16/11
This set of fitters belongs before.
betove.

C/WH/ARR
-G/WH/THS

C/WH/FI
1313

C/WH/Plans
15.

AC/WHD 5/14/73 P

MPS/BG/FI 29 MAY 1973

WH/1/FI

BY. HAND
15.
FORM 610
EDITIONS
SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY.

UNCLASSIFIED
---
14-00000
PROJECT KDFACTOR

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

SECRET

PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION
CA FI/CI

COMPONENT

DIVISION OR STAFF WH

X
AMINOMENT No. 2, FY 72

BRANCH

RENEWAL
ANNUAL
PIENNIAL

M1/1

X
TERMINATION

DESK
Mexico

EXTENSION
EXTENSION
OTHER

CASE OFFICEP
Henry E. Mulloy 4107

AUTHORIZATION

APPROVING AUTHORITY
ADDO

DATE APPROVID
25 May 1.73
AMT THIS ACTION
FY
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION

$ 7,24(
723,000
19
PERIOD OF APPROVAL

1 July 1771 TO
FROM
30 June 1/72 FINANCIAL
SYMBOL
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

2135-1009

SIGNATURE
MPS BG

Amendment No. 2 to Project KDFACTOR approved in the amount
off $7,24t, increasing the project's authorization from
$28,844 to a revised total of $30,000 for FY 72; termination
of Project KDFACTOR approved effective 30 June 1972.

124
DATE29 MAY 1973

DISTRIBUTION

PPB DIV. OR STAFF
BF OFFICER

GROUP
CASE
OFFICER
MPS/BG
FORM 849ιους
SECRET
EDITIONS

---
14-00000

SECRET
22 MAY 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Operations

THROUGH: MPS/BG

SUBJECT: Amendment and Termination of Project
KDFACTOR

1. Project KDFACTOR supported a visual and photo-
graphic surveillance operation in Mexico City targetted
against the Soviet Embassy. Assets included five agents
and two basehouse surveillance sites. Termination of
this project, effective 30 June 1972, was the result of
a security review which revealed that the VWBLANKET
principal knew the basic details of the KDFACTOR opera-
tions,

2. Agent termination was accomplished without any
immédiate difficulties; however, continued security will
depend on the terminated agents' silence. In the event
there is a compromise, the risk of damage to the Sta-
tion's relations with the Mexican Government should be
minimized because of the compatible nature of KDFACTOR's
operations.

3. The ADDO approved Amendment No. 1 to the proj-
ect in the amount of $9,844 for FY 1972 to provide for
the agent terminations, but an overrun of $7,246 oc-
curred as the result of miscalculation of termination
costs. This project action requests this additional:
sum of $7,246 to cover these expenses.

4.
The FI Staff recommends approval of this amend-
ment/termination request.

L. A. Campbell
Chief
Foreign Intelligence

Attachment:
Project
Reviewing officer:
FI/OPS Stephen Roll

LIMPDET CLAS
DANG NOTICE
SENSITI
AND s.
:
---
14-00000

SECRET

(Then Pilled in) JECT CRYPTONYM
PROJECT ACTION KDFACTOR

X FI/C CA
ORGANIZATIONAL DIVISION Western Hemisphere Division
ELEMENT FIELD STATION
TYPE OF ACTION Mexico City
NEW PROJECT BRANCH
APPROVAL NO One
AMENDMENT
CASF OFFICEFHE Mull
RENEWAL
Henry E. Mulloy
EXTENSION ROOM NO.
DESK Mexico
X TERMINATION 3E05 BULDING Hqs
RED
TE.
26 Apr 73
BLACK EXT 4167

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

TYPED NAME (and signature)" DATES
YES NO
IN OUT ATTACHED

C/WH/1 John C. Murray for 2clips 26er.

C/WH/B&F John T. Boeck BbA3273 274pr

C/WH/SS Richard B. Wright

C/WH/FI Robert D. Wiecha Heled W. Natthe 14 May 23

C/WH/Plans John H. Wilson
ل
VE
<
AC/WHD
James E. Flannery
5-14-73

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

(Type in Organizational Element and Hope Below Only
When Concurrence Obtained by Originating Element.)

DATES
IN
OUT
MEMO
ATTACHER
VES
NO

FI Staff
Alloll
/s/ Frank W. Hughes 22my 73/2

CI Staff /s/ Frank Hughes ALL FULLRE 22 May 73 X
ACTICUS ON
C/CCS/PRG /s/ Gale W. Allen THIS PROJECT 21 May 73 X
KC/MPS/BG Pave 2.

FROM PERIOD
1 July 71 30 June 72
APPROVAL
AMT THIS ACTION

FY
19 TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
A/DDP
SIGNATURE
Eileen 25 hay 1973
(5)

FORM 848
SECRET 6-69

---
14-0
:

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director
For Operations

SUBJECT : Project KDFACTOR Amendment
and Termination Request.

1. The KDFACTOR Project (until 1970 encrypted
as the LIEMPTY Project) was initially approved in
1958 to provide financial and material support for
visual and photographic surveillance operations
targetted against the Soviet Embassy in Mexico
City. In June 1972 the project supported five
agents and two basehouse surveillance sites.

2. The KDFACTOR Project was approved by the
ADDC in the amount of $19,000 for FY- 72 and
$20,000 for FY 73. Per DIRECTOR 285255, dated
30 June 1972, the ADDO approved Amendment M. 1
to the KDFACTOR Project in the amount of $9,844
for FY 72 to provide for costs of agent
terminations.

3. The decision to terminate all agents and
facilities under the KDFACTOR Project was based
on a security review of the project activities
which indicated that the VWBLANKET principal knew
the basic details of the KDFACTOR operations,
including the target, the location of the surveillance
sites, and probably the true names and former
cryptonyms of the agents covered by the project.

4. The cost of terminating the agents under the
KDFACTOR Project amounted to $15,573; the cost of
closing down the two basehouses under the project
was $1,412. The total amount charged to the KDFACTOR
Project in FY 72 was $36,090 which is $7,246 over
the approved authorization of $28,844. The overage
was incurred in terminating the agents and
facilities associated with the KDFACTOR Project.
Although Amendment No. 1 to the project was
approved in the amount of $9,844 to cover the
cost of terminating the agents in the

SECRET
EINPOET CL DY 035022
==End of OCR for page 7==

---
14-00000
SECRET

project, the actual payments made by Mexico City
Station per the terms of each Memorandum of Oral
Commitment (MOC) and in accordance with Mexican
law and custom exceeded the estimate for termination
costs made by Headquarters at the time the Amendment
was requested. Termination payments made to each
agent are as follows:

KDFACTOR-2 (Recruited 1956) $8,160
KDFACTOR-5 (Recruited 1956) 2,366
KDFACTOR-6 (Recruited 1956) 2,830
KDFACTOR-8 (Recruited 1965) 649
KDFACTOR-9 (Recruited 1966) 1,568

The long tenure of three of the terminated
agents, the relatively high monthly salary of
KPFACTOR-2 ($440) plus the computation of the
termination payments in accordance with Mexican
law and custom were the primary reasons that the
final agent termination costs amounted to $15,573.

5. All agent terminations were accomplished
in an amicable manner. No visible security risks
were apparent at the time of the terminations
although any one, or all, of the terminated agents
may at some future date decide to divulge to an
interested party the details of the KDFACTOR Project
operations. KDFACTOR-2, KDFACTOR-5, and KDFACTOR-6
have worked in photo surveillance operations for
the Station since 1956 and, therefore, obviously
have considerable knowledge of targets, former
safesites, personnel, and modus operandi of the
Station. However, since the KDFACTOR Project was
not concerned with incompatible operations or
targets, we believe the risks of damage to Station
relations with the Mexican Government in the event
of exposure of the KDFACTOR Project operations by a
terminated agent are within acceptable limits.

6. It is requested that the KDFACTOR Project
be amended to provide the sum of $7,246 for FY -
72 to cover the costs of terminating five agents
and two basehouse surveillance sites under this
project.
:
SECRET
==End of OCR for page 8==
---
14-00000

SECRET

7. It is also requested that the termination
of the KDFACTOR Project be approved effective 30
June 1972.

James E. Flannery
AC/WHD

SECRET
==End of OCR for page 9==
---
14-00000

PROJECT ACTION
TYPE OF ACTION
NEW PROJECT:
APPROVAL
AVENOMENT
NO. 2

١١/٢

FY 19
DIVISION
SECRET
CATION
Braj
KDFACTOR
Western Hemisphere Division

FIELD STATION
Mexico City
RENEWAL BRANCH
One

CASE OFFICER Henry E. Mulloy
CKTENSION

BUILDING
ROOM NO. DESK TEL. EXT.
Mexico 3E05 Hqs 1973 4167

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

TYPED NAME (and niggature) DATES

VE YO ATTACHED
IN OUT

C/WH/1 John C. Murray

C/WII/B&F John T. Boeck

C/WH/SS Richard B. Wright

C/WH/FI Robert D. Wiecha
Heled W. Natthe 14 May 23

C/WH/Plans John H. Wilson

C/WHD Theodore G. Shackley

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

(Type in Organizational Flement and have Below Onfy
When Concurrence Obtained by Graganating Element.)

DATES

OUT
MEMO ATTACHER
18MY 73/2.
FROM APPROVAL
PERIOD
71 30 June 72
SIGNATURE
AMT THIS ACTION

FY
50,090
1 July
ADDO

Wall Eileen
DATE
SECRET (5)
==End of OCR for page 10==
---
14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director
For Operations

SUBJECT: Project KDFACTOR Amendment and
Termination Request.

1. The KDFACTOR Project (until 1970 encrypted as the
LIEMPTY Project) was initially approved in 1958 to provide
financial and materiel support for visual and photographic
surveillance operations targetted against the Soviet Embassy
in Mexico City. In June 19/2 the project supported five
agents and two basehouse surveillance sites.

2. The KDFACTOR Project was approved by the ADDO in
the amount of $19,000 for FY-72 and $20,000 for FY-73.
Per DIRECTOR 285255, dated 30 June 1972, the ADDO approved
Amendment No. 1 to the KDFACTOR Project in the amount of
$9,844 for FY-72 to provide for costs of agent terminations.

3. The decision to terminate all agents and facilities
under the KDFACTOR Project was based on a security review
of the project activities which indicated that the VWBLANKET
principal knew the basic details of the KDFACTOR operations,
including the target, the location of the surveillance sites,
and probably the true names and former cryptonyms of the
agents covered by the project.

4. The costs of terminating all the agents in the KDFACTOR
Project amounted to $15,573.00 which was considerably more
than had been initially estimated when Amendment No. 1 for
FY-72 was requested and approved. The total amount charged
to the KDFACTOR Project in FY-72 was $36,090 which is $7,246
over the project's authorization of $28,844. The overage
was incurred in terminating agents and facilities associated
with the KDFACTOR Project; the effective date of all termi-
nations was 30 June 1972.

SECRET
2. IVFDET CL 3255272
:
:
---
14-00000

:
153
:

SECRET

5. All agent terminations were accomplished in an
amicable manner. No visible security risks were apparent
at the time of the terminations although any one, or all
of the terminationed agents may at some future date decide
to divulge to an interested party the details of the
KDFACTOR Project operations. KDFACTOR-2 and KDFACTOR-5
have worked in photo surveillance operations for the
Station since 1957 and, therefore, obviously have consider-
able knowledge of targets, former safesites, personnel, and
modus operandi of the Station. However, since the KDFACTOR
Project was not concerned with incompatible operations or
targets, we believe the risks of damage to Station relations
with the Mexican Government in the event of exposure of the
KDFACTOR Project operations by a terminated agent are within
acceptable limits.

6. It is requested that the KDFACTOR Project be amended
to provide the sum of $7,246 for FY-72 to cover the costs of
terminating five agents and two basehouse surveillance
sites covered by this project.

7. It is also requested that the termination of the
KDFACTOR Project be approved effective 30 June 1972.

Theodore G. Shackley
Chief, Nestern Hemisphere Division

SECRET
:
---
14-00000

KDFACTOR - Mexico City, Mexico -- Photographic Surveillance
Team Support -- FY 1972, Cost $19,000 and FY 1973,
Cost $20,000

Fiscal Year Approved Obligated
1971 $23,635 $27,586

Changes:

1. The processing of photographs obtained through this
project now is performed inside the Station. KDFACTOR-1, who
formerly processed the take in an outside safehouse, WES
terminated amicably in early March 1971. Security and effi-
ciency have been increased by this change. KDFACTOR-1 wis
terminated in 1970, but the termination payments were made
during FY 1971 causing an increase in that years obligations.

2. Howard T. BAGAUS handled the administration of this
project to early April 1971 when project responsibility
reverted from the Operations Support Section to the RED TOP
Section. At that time Timothy H. ARCHBOLD assumed the inside
administrative supervision, and agent meetings were turned
over to the outside case officer Bruce R. FERNALD. When
ARCHBOLD departed PCS on 7 June 1971, Oliver J. MANKUNAS
assumed responsibility for this project, including agent
meetings.

Accomplishments:

1. This project has provided continuous daily photo-,
graphic and visual coverage of personnel and vehicles entering
or leaving the Soviet Embassy. A total of 530 rolls of film
were produced during the reporting period. U.S. citizens.
visitors, and TDY personnel are given special attention. Iden-
tifications of license plates and automobile descriptions as
well as drivers and their companions are identified under this
project. Additionally, attendance sheets are maintained to
establish who is at the Embassy on any given day and hour.
==End of OCR for page 13==

---
14-00000
-2-

These photographs and reports have contributed operational
support to the Station's Soviet operations which is not
attainable elsewhere. For example, whenever the Soviets
change all their license numbers the Station is able to
compile a nev, complete roster within a matter of weeks.

Costs:

1. General: $19,000 is requested for FY 1972 and
$20,000 is requested for FY 1973. It is also requested
that the Project be amended for FY 1971 in the amount of
$4,260 to provide for the termination of KDFACTOR-1 and
KDFACTOR-7.

2. Source of Funds: Project KDFACTOR is included in
the Western Hemisphere Division's Operational Program in the
amount of $23,735 for FY 1972 and $24,182 for FY 1973.

3. Project Budget:

FY 1970 FY 72 FY 73 FY 74
Estimated
Obligations
- - - -

Salaries
KDFACTOR-2 $ 5,280 $ 5,280 $ 5,808 $ 5,803
KDFACTOR-5 1,728 1,728 1,901 1,901
KDFACTOR-6 2,112 2,112 2,323 2,323
KDFACTOR-8 768 768 -845 845
-KDFACTOR-9 -1,968 1,968 2,165 2,165-
KDPACTOR-1 4,400 -0- -0- -0-
KDFACTOR-7 2,500 -0- -0- -0-
• Bonuses 1,374 1,088 1,087 1,087
$20,130 $12,944 $14;129 $14,129
- - - -

Base houses
Rents $ 6,022 $ 4,350 $ 4,240 $ 4,240
Utilities 400 750 800 800
Maintenance 200 500 500 500
$6,622 $ 5,600 $ 5,540 $ 5,540
:
SECRET
==End of OCR for page 14==
---
14-00000

Misc-Expenses -3-

Ops entertainment $ 165 $ 300 $ 100 $ 100
Auto maintenance 80 100 100 100
Ops expenses 590 56 131 131
$ 835 $ 456 $ 331 $ 331

Total Expenses $27.587 $19,000 $20,000 $20,000

4. Foreign Currency: There is no special need for
foreign funds. No non-JKLANCE funds are used.

5. Commitments: Christmas bonuses are provided in the
FY 72 and FY 73 budgets.

6. Funding: Funds are hand-carried from the Station by
the case officer and transferred during clandestine meetings.
Receipts are obtained for all disbursements according to
JKLANCE regulations.

7. Annexes: None.
==End of OCR for page 15==
---
14-00000

KDFACTOR - Mexico City, Mexico -- Photographic Surveillance
Team Support -- FY 1972, Cost $19,000 and FY 1973,
Cost $20,000

Changes:

Fiscal Year Approved Obligated
1971 $23,635 $27,586

1. The processing of photographs obtained through this
project now is performed inside the Station. KDFACTOR-1, who
formerly processed the take in an outside safehouse, was
terminated amicably in early March 1971. Socurity and effi-
ciency have been increased by this change. KDFACTOR-1 was
terminated in 1970, but the termination payments were made
during FY 1971 causing an increase in that years obligations.

2. Howard T. BAGAUS handled the administration of this
project to early April 1971 when project responsibility
reverted from the Operations Support Section to the RED TOP
Section. At that time Timothy H. ARCHBOLD assumed the inside
administrative supervision, and agent meetings were turned
over to the outside case officer Bruce H. FERNALD. When
ARCHBOLD departed PCS on 7 June 1971, Oliver J. MANKUNAS
assumed responsibility for this project, including agent
meetings.

Accomplishments: -1

1. This project has provided continuous daily photo-
graphic and visual coverage of personnel and vehicles entering
or leaving the Soviet Embassy. A total of 530 rolls of film
were produced during the reporting period. U.S. citizens.
visitors, and TDY personnel are given special attention. Iden-
tifications of license plates and automobile descriptions as
well as drivers and their companions are identified under this
project. Additionally, attendance sheets are maintained to
establish who is at the Embassy on any given day and hour.
==End of OCR for page 16==
---
14-00000
-2-

These photographs and reports have contributed operational
support to the Station's Soviet operations which is not
attainable elsewhere. For example, whenever the Soviets
change all their license numbers the Station is able to
compile a new, complete roster within a matter of weeks.

Costs:

1. General: $19,000 is requested for FY 1972 and
$20,000 is requested for FY 1973. It is also requested
that the Project be amended for FY 1971 in the amount of
$4,260 to provide for the termination of KDFACTOR-1 and
KDFACTOR-7.

2. Source of Funds: Project KDFACTOR is included in
the Western Hemisphere Division's Operational Program in the
amount of $23,735 for FY 1972 and $24,182 for FY 1973.

3. Project Budget:

FY 1970 FY 72 FY 73 FY 74
Estimated
Obligations
- - - -

Salaries
KDFACTOR-2 $ 5,280 $ 5,280 $ 5,808 $ 5,808
KDFACTOR-5 1,728 1,728 1,901 1,901
KDFACTOR-6 2,112 2,112 2,323 2,323
KDFACTOR-8 768 768 845 845
KDFACTOR-9 1,968- 1,968 2,165 2,165
KDFACTOR-1 4,400 -0- -0- -0-
KDFACTOR-7 2,500 -0- -0- -0-
Bonuses 1,374 1,088 1,087 1,087
$20,130 $12,944 $14,129 $14,129
- - - -

Base houses
Rents $ 6,022 $ 4,350 $ 4,240 $ 4,240
Utilities 400 750 800 800
Maintenance 200 500 500 500
$ 6,622 $ 5,600 $ 5,540 $ 5,540
:
SECRET
==End of OCR for page 17==
---
14-00000

-3-

Misc Expenses

Ops entertainment $ 165 $ 300 $ 100 $ 100
Auto maintenance 80 100 100 100
Ops expenses 590 56 131 131
$ 835 $ 456 $ 331 $ 331

Total Expenses $27.587 $19,000 $20,000 $20,000

4. Foreign Currency: There is no special need for
foreign funds. No non-KLANCE funds are used.

5. Commitments: Christmas bonuses are provided in the
FY 72 and FY 73 budgets...

6. Funding: Funds are hand-carried from the Station by
the case officer and transferred during clandestine meetings.
Receipts are obtained for all disbursements according to
JKLANCE regulations.

7. Annexes: None.
==End of OCR for page 18==
---
14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
KDFACTOR Project Renewal

FROM

Fred Kravcov
WH/1, 3E05

EXTENSION NO
4167

DATE
28 October 1971

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
DATE
RECEIVED
PORWARDED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom, Craw a line across column ofter each comment.)

C/WH/1/FI/CI 28 act FY 71 FUNDS AVAILABLE
20.
2. nd
FY 72 FUNDS AVAILABLE
C/WH/1
27/2/2022

C/WH/B&F 28/0 20173 FUNDS WILL BE MADE
4.

C/WH/SS
AVAMAABLE.

3.58/4/WH
5.
C/WH/FI

Then of fitters belongs

11.19.74/
below.

C/WH/Plans
6.

C/WHD
7.
8.

8/F!

Akr

9.

10.

8/66 19NY 159.59
150g

11.

12.

WH/FI.

13.

du Readose fuld

14.

//CI

15.
FORM
-02
610 EDITIONS
EDITH

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED
:
:
==End of OCR for page 19==
---
14-00000

SECRET
PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

PROJECT
KUFACTOR

ACTION CA ٢١

NEW PROJECT
X AMENDMENT No. 1, FI 72 COMPONENT

DIVISION OR STAFF WH

BRANCH

RENEWAL
ANNUAL
PIENNIAL M/1

TERMINATION DESK
Maxico
EXTENSION
CASE OFFICER EXTENSION
J. Hurray 6955

OTHER

AUTHORIZATION

APPROVING AUTHORITY DATE APPROVED AMT THIS ACTION FY
ADDP 30 June 1972 19
73
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION

S72 320220,844

PERIOD OF APPROVAL FINANCIAL
1 July 1978 30. June 1972
FROM TO
SYMBOL
CODE
2135-1009

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

Arendment No. 1 to Project KDFACTOR app roved, as per
DIR 285255, in the amount of $9,844, increasing the
project's authorisation from $19,000 to a revised
total of $28,8hh for FT 72.

SIGNATURE
MPS/BG

DATE
25 JUL.
DISTRIBUTION

PPB DIV. OR STAFF
BF OFFICER

CASE
OFFICER
3
MPS/BG
FORM
11-70
1 849
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECRET
i
==End of OCR for page 20==
---
14-00000

PROJECT SECRET
PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

PROJECT IDFACTOR

ACTION CA
471
COMPONENT

DIVISION OR STAFF WH

A NEW PROJECT. BRANCH

☑ AMENDMENT
PENEWAL
ANNUAL
PIENNIAL M1/1

TERMINATION Mexico
PFSK

EXTENSION CASE OFFICER EXTENSION
Fred KravoOV 4167

OTHER
AUTHORIZATION

APPROVING AUTHORITY DATE APPROVED AMT THIS ACTION FY
ADD P 10 December 1971 72 19,000
30 June 1973 -$39,0007320,000
PERIODOS APPROVAL PIVASCIAL 2135-1009
FROM 1 July 1971 CODE
SYMBOL
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

SIGNATURE DATE
(Signed) E. .
20 AV
MPS BG

DISTRIBUTION

PPB DIV. OP STAFF CASE 3
MPS/BG
FORM EDITIONS
11-70 SECRET
OFFICER
OROUT
(5)
---
14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NO. 1
(DOCUMENT FOR
THIS PROJECT)

DATE 17.0.71

NOTIFICATION OF PROJECT APPROVAL ACTION

TO: CHIEF OF STATION (BASE) muxico al-

ATTENTION: FINANCE OPPICER

INFO:

PROJECT KOPAATOR
PAN 2135-1009

FUNDING

TYPE OF ACTION PERIOD OF ACTION 15.71 TO: 73 AMOUNT $ 39,000

NEW PREVIOUS ACTION IN THIS FISCAL YEAR ソーンは
TOTAL FISCAL YEAR APPROVAL
RENEWAL 19,000 -73

EXTENSION FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR HQS USE -

TERMINATION FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR FIELD USE
= 15,000 20,000
AMENDMENT

OTHER 20,000

CHIEF, WH/BAP

HOS USE ONLY
PROCESSED APPROVED TYPE OF ACTION PERIOD AMOUNT

SECRET
(When Filled In)
==End of OCR for page 22==