104-10180-10162
6/7/
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIO:  RALPH SEEHAFER
UNIT:  WH/L/FI
EXT:   2065
DATE:  18 MAY 1961

TO:  CARACAS

FROM:  KANOPOIHXBELL

CONF:  BELL 15

INFO: DDP, COP, ADCP/A, WH, BELL, S/C

TO PRITY CARA INFO
JHZIP

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(R)-274049)
ROUTING
1
2
5
6
MAY 18 2048Z 61

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

OUT 9323
CITE DEK BELL 0628

PLS PUT FOLLOWING INTO SM WRITE COVER LETTER AND MAIL TO AMIRE 1:

"MSG NUMBER FIVE (HENRY). RECEIVED YOUR SW MSGS THRU FOURTEEN.

BE VERY CAREFUL OF ELVIKA JOVANE DE SAYAS WE HAVE REPORT SHE VERY
PRO-CASTRO. FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS FOR YOU ALSO BEING SENT BY
RADIO. HENRY, CLINTON, HAPPY AND EUGENIO SHOULD LEAVE CUBA AS SOON

AS FEASIBLE. USE EVERY MEANS AVAILABLE INCLUDING COMPANY FUNDS
FOR LEGAL OR ILLEGAL TRAVEL. MEANTIME DIVORCE YOURSELF FROM OPERATIONS
AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE AND CONCENTRATE ON YOUR EXFILTRATION. ADVISE IF
OUR HELP NEEDED. IF ROBERTO WILLING BE ALTERNATE WT CHANNEL FOR
PETE AND NET PROVIDE HIM WITH RADIO. HE ONLY TO BE USED IN EMERGENCY.

USE INK AS PRIMARY CHANNEL. INSTRUCT FELIPE USE SW AND COURIERS
FOR NORMAL COMMO AND WT ONLY FOR VERY URGENT MATTERS. WE SENDING

POUCH VIA TIGERS WIFE. FOR SECURITY REASONS WE REMOVED ENVELOPE
THREE CONTAINING PERSONAL LETTERS AND REPLACED WITH ENVELOPE
CONTAINING PESOS FOR FELIPE MANAGE OPERATIONS. TELL FELIPES WIFE
SEND FULL DETAILS BANK ACCT TO HENRYS PO BOX MIAMI. WE WILL
:
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

ORIG :
UNIT :
EXT :
DATE :
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING

1
2
5
6

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:-

INFO:
OUT 9323 BELL 0628
TO INFO
CITE DEK

(INTERCEPT AND BEGIN MONTHLY DEPOSITS. TALL (PETE) BE CAREFUL OF
COUNSELLOR YUGOSLAV EMB WHO INTELLIGENCE AGENT. BRIEFED
CONTENTS THIS MSG FOR ORAL RELAY TO YOU."

END OF MESSAGE

R.Wat

J. J. C. KIN
C/HD
RELEASING OFFICERS
(E)

AC/WH/1
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
Reichhardt
A. STANULIS
AC/WH/L
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
4/V
