1400000
104-10071-10060 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTINGAD RECORD SHEET
PRIOR TO FILING INSTRUCTIONS TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap If file no. and title shown are not proper,
and forward to RID. insert proper file no. below and forward
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records document to RID/AN.
significant action taken or comments requir- PROPER FILE NO.
ing preservation.
FROM:
RID/ 4-63

DATE TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
TO ROOM OFFICER'S FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
NO. INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED COMMENTS
1. 17 / 67
C/I3-1
2.
MR. CBER-CIOP/00
3. Ito 4. of possible
interest to you.
MR. TUTH - DO/I/B/-1H1
4.
Shichy I file Mask dygouts

5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
7528
TRACE ABSTRACT FILE TITLE
REQUEST INDEX FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
DATE MICROFILMED DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER
11 Octo UWCA 03510

FORM 610α SECRET (40)
1-63 USE SPEVIOUS
EDITIONS

14-00000 C/D/I
PROCESSING ACTION
TO
MFO.
FROM
SUBJECT
DISPATCH
Chief, DO/I CLASSIFICATION MARKED FOR INDEXING
RYBAT/SECRET

Chief of Base, Washington
WOMUSE
"Peace" Demonstrations
X NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
DIRECTOR 39871

1. Enclosed for Headquarters information are copies of
literature mailed by the Catholic Association for Inter-
national Peace (CAIP) to its members (attachments 1, 2 and 3)
concerning "Negotiation Now!"

2. Also enclosed as of possible interest are copies of
CAIP materials (attachments 3, 4 and 5) concerning its 40th
Annual Conference, scheduled for October 27 - 29, the theme of
which is "Selective Conscientious Objection in an Age of
Conflict." The conference is to be held at Dunbarton College
of Holy Cross, 2935 Upton Street N.W., Washington, D. C.

3. The above items were received by Oliver H. CORBUSTON
who had joined the CAIP for cover purposes in the course of a
previous assignment. Attachments 1, 2 and 3 are forwarded in
response to reference.

Liver H. Carlstein
Oliver H. CORBUSTON

Attachments: As stated.

Distribution:
3 - Chief, DO/I w/atts
1 - Chief, DO W/o att

7528
CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER CS COPY BODY DATE 1967
UWCA-3510 11 October 1967
CLASSIFICATION HQS FILE NUMBER
RYBAT/SECRET
