14-00000
104-10183-10232 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SENDER WILL CHE
CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
TO NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 Bill Wainwright
2
3
4
5 Bryant
ACTION
APPROVAL DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
COMMENT DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
CONCURRENCE FILE RETURN
INFORMATION SIGNATURE
Remarks: 06
33 attached on AMWHIF-1 and Etege.man
Please get word to A-l that if he sees
(Tegel) to get as much info from him on his current
situation in Brazil, who he knows in
Cuban community and Cubans he knows in Cuba.
Naturally, without exposing his (A-l's)
connections with us.
NE/5 will handle contact with (Charlie Davis)
and subsequent contact, if ary, with (Tegel).

03

03
06
FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO DATE
Joe B.

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
FOEN NO Use previous editions
237
140
WtII6 GRICE 146-0-38282

14-00000
Y/PY
Chief, WHD SECRET X

Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro
PERUKCEN
Subject of 201-720615 06
AR: Paragraph 2. [Quart Siegel is Siegelimen.]
Refst A. HBRM-5816
B. HERA-11177
1. Subject applied for, and was granted on 29 April 1964,
a 15-day tourist vise to the United States. He told the consular
officer that he planned to leave on about 10 Key for France,
where he planned to stay for a month or more before going to the
United States. He plans to conteet the following friends there:

Mr. and Mrs. Benri Maslich
110-33 72nd Ave.
Forest Hilis 75
New York.
Fr. and Mrs. John Duys
1 East 66th St.
Rev York 21, Rew York
Hr. and Mrs. II. Gilbert Smith
Dockboard
2 Canal St.
New Orleans, Le.
2. If Subject also contacts ALEHIP-1, it is requested thet
the latter debrief him on his PERUEN contects here and, if he
appears to be operationally useful, that a contact be set up in
Rio de Janeiro, as requested in Reference B.

Fistribution:
4- WED
- Files
Jcd
30 April 1964 Harry V. WITHERSY

HBRA-12952 MAY 1 1964
