14-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

REPORT NO: HMM-1331

DATE OF INFO: May - August 1956

COUNTRY: Mexico

SUBJECT: Alicia ROMERO G. (Garzun)

PLACE ACQUIRED: Mexico City

DATE ACQUIRED: 12 Sept. 1956

DATE OF REPORT: 19 Sept. 1956

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: Source A: Mexican business with
contacts in journalistic circles B-2 (paras 1, 3, 4 and 5)
Source B: Source with access to Soviet official circles in Mexico Bloc (para 2)

The following information has been developed on Alicia ROMERO a suspicious
contact of Grigoris NIKIPORETS, Soviet Naval Attache, MEXICO.

1. An investigation of Avenida Coyoacan 624-2, the residence given as that of
subject, showed it to be occupied by Maria Eugenia Romero de HARO. Her husband
is related to Captain Antonio HARO Oliva, husband of Nadia HARO Oliva, who
is an actress in a show called "The Four Colonels."

2. It has been ascertained that on 7 May 1955 a man described as Major HARO
Oliva, a movie producer, was in contact with Yurix PAPOROV, Soviet Cultural and
intelligence officer, LYICO.

3. Alicia ROMERO G. has been identified as in charge of the photographic depart-
ment of a magazine named FRAZ, published at Avenida Juarez 20-22 in Mexico City.
COMMENT: A copy of this magazine is being retained in Station files.

The director of the magazine is Jorge HARO Cabrera, husband of Maria Eugenia
Romero de ARO (noted above) and he resides at Aver.ida Coyoacan 624-2. He pays
750 pesos per month rent.

Alicia ROMERO G. is the sister-in-law of Jorge HARO Cabrera. She is the
daughter of Maria de la Luz (widow) de ROMERO. Alicia ROMERO reportedly is the
mistress of various politicians. She claims her home to be at Av. Coyoacan 624-2.
Alicia ROMERO is reported to be pro-Communist and to be a member of the PCM. She
is to be supported by that party in the forthcoming elections for the post of
Federal Deputy.

COMMENT: Her connections with politics and politicians explain some of the
report noted in the reference.

SECURITY INFORMATION

FORM NO. 51-58
APR 1953
 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED.

50-6-32/4

(20)
YURIY PAPOROV. 201-82485 CIT: USSR SOVIET CULTURAL AND INTELLIGENCE.
OFFICER.
A MEXICO A SCERTAINED THAT ON 7MAY 56 SUBS WAS IN
CONTACT WITH MAJOR HARO CLIVA, AMOVIE PRODUCER DOI SOPT. MISE
