104-10241-10250 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

F 68271
Inactive

Charles

[REDACTED]

1. On [REDACTED], Charles [REDACTED] to a [REDACTED] Charach listed, Fort Worth [REDACTED] for the purpose of securing information in this case.

2. Charach advised that Charles is known in Fort Worth as a [REDACTED] as well as a [REDACTED] Charach. Charach stated that subject is in a position at any time to obtain a considerable amount of financial resources. Charach related that Charles recently attempted to be interviewed by a Fort Worth news camera crew which Charach considers to be questionable.

3. On 1 May 63, Mrs. Ruth Norback informed that Charles was working at the [REDACTED] at 1601 Main Street in Dallas and Mrs. Norback stated that her apartment was listed by Charles. Charles is considered by Mrs. Norback to be of questionable character. Regarding Charles’ employment, Mrs. Norback advised that Charles has several listings in the Dallas, Fort Worth and Greenville (Texas) telephone directory. Mrs. Norback is of the opinion that Charles is now actively seeking to associate himself with political movements. Mrs. Norback stated that Charles is actively soliciting funds to work for [REDACTED] from the area. Charles, according to Mrs. Norback, is in the feature film [REDACTED]. Mrs. Norback stated that she was unable to obtain a further listing for Charles. Mrs. Norback stated that she might be able to furnish further intelligence information.

In Mrs. Norback’s office, the writer observed what appeared to be a dark complexion, dark hair and features that would indicate possible Mexican extraction.

4. On 2 May 63, Dallas, Texas source advised that Fort Worth source stated that Charles, Fort Worth, Texas, had expressed an interest in donating his book to [REDACTED]. Source stated that Charles has several political associates but due to Charles’ past political activities in South, Carolina may desire that he stay away from the Fort Worth [REDACTED] political cause. Deyer is described as a national, politically and financially, on both sides of the fence in Dallas. Deyer has given financial backing for President Kennedy at various times to the White House to credit to a good President Kennedy and desired to once the White House to credit to a bad President Kennedy. Deyer is extremely secretive and desires to only work closely with the correspondent.
Chi 110273

-2-

[REDACTED] Charles [REDACTED]

extremely limited connections; however, Charles did mention that he plans to make up to [REDACTED] a stay in Fort Worth from approximately 24 May to 26 May 1963.

A. Contact with a [REDACTED] has been [REDACTED]

5. On 3 May 63, Dallas (Texas) source advised that she had had a conversation with Mrs. Jack Katz of the [REDACTED], Dallas, Texas. Source advised that Mrs. Jack Katz related to source that following a political function [REDACTED] that [REDACTED] that she has observed Charles attempting to obtain financial backing from various members of the Democratic and Republican parties in Dallas and Austin, Texas.

6. On 6 May 63, Fort Worth (Texas) source related that it is extremely difficult to contact Mrs. Pat Matlock since she is always on reservations. Fort Worth source relates that Mrs. Matlock had stated that she had obtained contributions from Charles, Dallas, Texas and is attempting to obtain further contributions for [REDACTED] Washington, D.C. from persons being sold stocks with the American Life Insurance Company. Fort Worth source stated that Mrs. Matlock State Department projects falling on approval of stocks will result in the American Life Insurance Company becoming a major stock broker in the Western States.

A. Dallas source advised that she desires to be contacted to Charles to come to Dallas, and if necessary, the [REDACTED] to be contacted. Dallas source is making every effort to contact Mrs. Pat Matlock to determine exactly what arrangements have been made with Charles regarding Dallas contributions on that day and what arrangements have been made for the meetings.

B. Dallas source indicated that Mrs. Katz, Mrs. Pat Matlock and Dallas source are attempting to confirm a meeting in Dallas by the 24th to 26th of May 1963, or during the period in which Charles had stated he would be visiting Fort Worth, Texas.

Dallas source suggested that sources in South Carolina and Fort Worth (Texas) and in the American Life Insurance Company be alerted to the fact that Charles is apparently attempting to obtain financial backing from various persons in both states of the Union.

Dallas source related that she had spoken to [REDACTED], representative of the [REDACTED], Dallas, Texas. The [REDACTED] representative mentioned that a meeting [REDACTED] that a meeting being held [REDACTED] would have to be postponed to a later time. [REDACTED] that due to conflicting statements, [REDACTED] that she could not conclusively determine and requested that continue necessary base.

CONFIDENTIAL

-3-

[REDACTED] Charles [REDACTED]

7. Fort Worth, [REDACTED] in the vicinity of the Fort Worth Medical Center, relates that [REDACTED] in Fort Worth, Texas. [REDACTED]
Fort Worth Texas. [REDACTED]
Fort Worth Police Department [REDACTED] [REDACTED] [REDACTED] Fort Worth Police Department [REDACTED]
[REDACTED]
[REDACTED] Fort Worth Police Department [REDACTED]

It is estimated by [REDACTED]

8. Fort Worth [REDACTED] Fort Worth source desires to advance information regarding sources [REDACTED] to contact [REDACTED] and that a situation could be made in which [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] as follows:

9. In the course of the interview conversation, Charles had mentioned to [REDACTED] that he has had several calls from [REDACTED] and that the latter wants to see [REDACTED] Charles related to [REDACTED] (one in which [REDACTED] desire to have Charles/

Further details are requested to be obtained from [REDACTED] to [REDACTED] the investigation.

[REDACTED] desire information on Charles’ past.

[REDACTED]

-4-

10. [REDACTED] called on 7 May 63 to describe concerning [REDACTED] Fort Worth. [REDACTED] that [REDACTED] to contact [REDACTED]. [REDACTED]

11. On 9 May 63, Dallas is directed to relate that [REDACTED]. Fort Worth [REDACTED] the [REDACTED] [REDACTED]

Distribution:

Orig - Chief
1 - Director of Central Cotton
1 - Report (Dallas)
1 - Report (FW)
1 - Index (Central)
1 - Rep/File (Chron)

A[REDACTED]
