14-00000

# SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn  across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:
|TO| ROOM   NO.| DATE REC'D | DATE FWO'D | OFFICER'S  INITIALS | COMMENTS |
|-----|-------|-----------|-----------|-------------------|----------|
| FB III |      |           |           |                   |   |
| E & E| |  | |   |  |


*   *   *
14-00000

## SECRET

RE 144 - 00 130624
300
14
4
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION STAFF HENDERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:  **LUCE CLAIRE BEYLE**

**Lost DOCUMENTS**

**(ARCHIVES)**

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:
DATE RECEVED DATE RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
28 JUL 1978 8/8/78 Palmer Betty Palmer

**NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE**

*   *   *
14-00000,

"DO" RECORD MATERIAL

DUE DATE

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.
2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES,
RM GA-50, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.
3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
4598
INDIVIDUAL, PLEASE CALL EXTENSION

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM
FORM
1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
3.  IDEI'S GA-ID
S. Corbat

DO NOT REMOVE ANY PAPERS OR
MUTILATE FOLDER.

FILE NO. Wash-Dive-Off-ce-kee
DOCUMENT: #9109

FOLDER:
14:
PAGE:
RETURN TO
15: GA-50
Rm GES
BOX: 64

FORM
3-62
610
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

*   *   *
14-00000
	.
By Counter

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
630 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK. N. Y.

Colenci will. Donovan
Office of Strategic Services
shington, D. C.

November 14, 1041
Ter Colonel:
You may have heard already that as bee been para aires
of po political sarfere in respect ospect of the British Empire, bits so
Interesting and so relevent to our ination thirt Izing a chance
on boring you with a repetition:

Then Kis, buce vent to the hole set some tico
she had an intervier with Auchinleck, among others, ma obranco from
hiz some ext extremely portant and and previously confidential Information.
According to ono account, she even le med die ante of tich the
British offensive In North North Africa wis due to begin. She note thie
Information down in her noi
her opinio
of Auchinleck and of the British Administration in that part of the
world and elsewhere, all of this in extremely uncoarlimentery terus.
nouclocks shi Iso Inscrited he
:
こ

Previous to her return to America, A she perc percuaded
Mencion to pist her notes tider some kind of on official British coel
with the den that this would clear then without inspectionat through
any British posts she might the passing on her way home. In cauit on
to these notes under seal, seal, Mrs. Mi Luce also had further notes in her
possession which she wrote after the earlier material ass sceled.
When she arrived at the British censorship in Trinidad, a Ecitibh
official lookcả through her twicealed papers and found among then the
notes in aliten she had expressed herself with consideracle feeling
on the British. The official was moved by this ulscovery to breck
the seal which Moncton The placed on the earlier material and serd
that too. Mrs. Luce felt very strongly about this action, and pro-
tasted rith great feeling, but the official Et Trinidad es not
deterred

Sorve view was taken in Triffond firs. Luce's
notes, and most urticularly of the inferastien che ne obtained
from Auchleck, that all the papers vire sent to Londen. Lecording
to ore version, they ever went to Mr. Churchill hirself. They were
then sent to Washington-parently to the thite House. It was only
after these several examinations that the vere returned to Irs. Luce.

This history is supposed to explain the disciplinary
action tu taken a cinct First both foncion and Auchinleck some time ago, und
It's firmly believed, in at leist sonc warters that is. Luce's exper-
ience as not altogether inconnected with the "Open Letter to the
British people recently published in Lire Magazine.

*   *   *
4-00000

ish-
hoptly Hefter Kis. Luod's porn to tilsapuntury,
tan off-the-ri.cond de ping of the Overcrua Pore Club
Ingushem em ton ton shout her travels and took a very strongly anti-Brit
họn. The meeting the door leer informal, and thic t-
mos here friend to her, so there seras to te po Person to cup-
pore that he was provoked Inte crying crything she did not really
aven. Trong other things, she said at this meeting that the Suez
Carl should be turned over to the Egyptians.

"Then do you think this should be done?" the vac
kekoa.

"altht now," she plod.
:
2
Does that t to 20 the Pinuma Canal al too-do you thi ink
that ou họ tỏ vẻ giyên kck to Pen?" shothen comespondent prevent
aaked.

Panine too."
"Les,"s Luce replied." "It goes for Pana
I cannot curintce this account of the latest stave
16. Luce! 's itical career, but it comes from extremely rell
informed and cover minded persons who are without prejulice.

Hope to see you &ain soon..
All the best.

Yours,
walli Deuel

*   *   *
4-00000

FOR ARCHIVES/RECORDS CENTER USE

"DO" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.
2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES,
RM GA-50, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.
3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
4598
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION
FORM
POM 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(47)
QUE DATE
13/5/78

To Requester:
Please return this reference
to IP/ARD/PSU immediately after
use.

POJASELY AFTER USE
76-78910
RECORDS CENTER
JOB NO. 76-789
SPACE NO.32 4138
324138
FILE NO Wash Lig Tit B
DOCUMENT VAN-850
FOLDER NO.40-120 that the 934
BOX NO. 44

E2 IMPDET CL BY: 062147
15.
RETURN TO:
IP/ARD/PSU GA-50
FORM
3-62
610
LIVE PREVIOUS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

*   *   *
4-00000
CS" RECORD MATERIAL
QUE CATE
1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.
2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &
DISPOSITION SECTION, RM Servi, ON OR BEFORE
DATE INDICATED.
3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION
DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM
FORM
12-62
1790. USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(47)

3.  Ridke
4.  Alien Chintian 2306
220
5 Rese
6. Nay nilevich
7. RWCE
8:  Toplin CIRA 4D3.29
401729
Paul Hartman

MUTILATE FOLDER
D-1
DE
GEH
10.
11.
12.
13:
14
15.
FORM
"RETURN TO
RI/ARCHIVES
610
1 DEC 55
(OP-3)
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
7-56
FILE NO.
NO. Wash Rey INT 178

(YKX 850
DOCUMENT:
FOLDER:
PAGE: 13
1232
R&S
BOX:
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
ز
CIA INTERMAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

*   *   *
4-00000

Subject: AFFRANCE OF CO
Classification: SECRET
Fererence: 
хи 850

A Fonding
Agrexingtely four days tropone of the ". S. Agencies in
pa
Juring monated to pick up a coro
Counis hist peser ering the The first time.
en, that this rerer ind apre red, lotrim is known shout
ing, asier as we could
where it is rrinted or for it is distributed.
The
دة مة
Fenth is marke red but no date.e
reguler lerk. During this, t
eeltho o it it arrerre cuite
have been ricked up. These cortions have been tolien to the
ten days, three different editions
Intelligence Division of tre 01 and there translated.

DEVELOPED LAD: is office is making every endeavor,
in cooperation with the Office of war Information in Kunzing,
to locate the source of this paper and also its backers. Turther
information will be reported as soon as had.
84/023

VERIFIED

Evaluation:
Distributions teshinston (1 Copy of
1-Det. 202 translations attached)
1-Ferro 1-New Delhi
1-7YX
Approved by:
BH1015
Officer Large

SECRET

*   *   *
4-00000

肥况把蝦!”、
本 版
戰
都要
印
新加坡五项督所必经之 午 會十四日时的
財局婚的控訴,而將所有地:未然保
路,石油、皮、変尊和 地同,所得的
運海段斜月可運物七
将的结: 柏公布財界。如世界安
是不受略,是秀因
台所的全台
的
府的政策,中江町支起十五日介業電)白百较成 家合
送至計中,確保設 定,法笑的說:公路選到文是二百六
本本社三年以系列,使各國受組果
對從新巴哈馬斯各為切的不容許我想干十五期的引線公路研英
江八
明
治勢力存在。(文十六日商辦到的一語,是以公司產
世忠太陽堂可打的由提行建築中的
日日子)に古
更大能美國一段,都
間的兩遍就除北
銀之行 其中西香
打工的八段,可
中包,以
三艦隊飛機
,別太,大都安受法所提交退日本美人・可
,因此祖一個因技术受這心。
新橋以實現上述的
爱,我是
小須定的一
襲香港汕頭廈門
台灣前日大半天在空中
十五):
江門、門,好
牙球前由行,共打这日后后十一段
十,打的二十八般,計高中,四世民一百十一二架,美教戲交卡
如此人事情應行
監院大批彈劾茶 貴州省政府改組
(中央就武)度度
金三三大太
?
包括中家公司、沙市
時政
局、現行
市公用和公共管理局
公市:天下九月山日
分だけ封於流,現已逐一高明,今
別依法进出料中茶,可深
公司提公無し・自社見造出,
十管人:李京配信
大,分配定不言,要人員,無安全,對
心任秀等。自信金
打銀行,首案,在找想
京京十五日播:事本日午後公・・「財」は
、ヒロコ・刊期、中国行
在不健全,分向財都合が
,從十五及八時三十分至午一時乐台場各部,主打作提心,一说,不
外,更點作幻湖中守卡、為思和協各地,我放由利交工所かむじ議行止。公
西行長大・
交通的影運,邊研公代行元員多
小播:中国日方:中大小不行,向心場。
艦上記我的門故と十菜,今日上午九時三十分起,中部各案件より送付
之久
主管福門分到的。
央打字
(中央
川田
宜
政院任楊莊店
海九、錢、文
任楊森君行主席,矣
調任、府文官長。
(中心
(次
-
本行擇於一月十五正式開幕真爲各
機關學校盟家團體被貨服務修理工
量精印件迅速如蒙醫無任歡迎
1C(中三時1〇」號(兩路口郵局對面)

*   *   *
4-00000

FOR ARCHIVES RECORDS CENTER USE

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.
2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES,
RM GA-50, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.
3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
4598
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION
DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM
9-77
FORM RM 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(47)
QUE DATE
13/5/78
3.  Stella Corbat
IPEIS GAJO
Please return this reference
to IP/ARD/PSU immediately after
use.

9.
10.

JOB NO.
RECORDS CENTER
57-75
SPACE NO. 408112

11.
12.
13.
14.

RETURN TO:
15: GA-50
IP/ARD/PSU

FORM
3-02
610
ICHTHONG
CP-1
13-201
Fragile 7751
FILE NO.
DOCUMENT.
FOLDER NO.
BOX NO. 30
E2 IMPDET CL BY: 062147
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
OUT

*   *   *
4-00000
528
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession. No...

Date Rec'd SA

To
SOOR
No.
Date
Rec'd.
Red'd.
Officer's
Tattials

Dir
2.

3
5.

W. Eur.
3.

A
8.
mast

Feles

ムート

DECRET
Comments
Each comment should be Lundered to correspond with number in To column.
A line should be drawn across sheet under each comment.
Officer Designations should be used in To column.
Each Officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routin
Action desired or action taken should be indicated in Comments .column.
Routing sheet should always be returned to Registry.
Por Officer Designations see separate sheet..

SECRET

*   *   *
4-00000
14-00000
14-90000

"If you decide you really need any of these, please let me know
promptly, citing the ZIZ misber, so I can get the necessary perdssion.
It shouldn't be too difficult to get permish, especially for
182, 3, 6, and 7.

There are some dozen other 1941 Lithuania photos, but (a) samm
are very blurred; (b) they aren't dated nor located more closely than
victims of NKVD Lithuania 1941", 1.0. it might be corpses or torture
charbars anywhere. So you don't want then do you?

An cearching for the other items you asked for on the phone.

Biel
Sending photos XYZ-1 to 7 to Shub this afternoon.

*   *   *
4-00000

SECRET

21 May 1951
:
file "STALIN PHOTO-POCK
RE: Reproductions of CIA Graphics photos, given to SS by DCS 17 Lay 1951.
DCS requested then from Graphics several weeks before. Sent to him with a covering
note from Dick Cornish, saying that Graphics forgot to onit the CL. captions.
Cornish cut out the CIA murbers, but left the captions.
:
I have filed most of these in my folder PHOTOS.
The following Ian sending to Shub, having cut out the CIA-typed captions
and written sare, in sterilized form, with the XYZ mumbering, on the back,
KAMALA
I am raminding Shub that they can't be used without clearance by Graphics.
:
M-1...USSR. Asiatic RSFSR Primorsk Region LA DIVOSTOK 343 08 N 131 54 B
SECOND RIVER CONCENTRATION CAMP. 1946. CONFIDENTIAL.

XYZ2...Germany, Brandenburg near Oranienburg 52.45 N 13 15 8.
Sachsenhausen, fomer Nazi Concentration Camp, now used by Soviets.
It is reported that there are 14,500 men and 1,500 women, mostly
political prisoners, confined in this camp. June 1949. RESTRICTED.

XYZ-3...LATVIAN SSR RIGA 56 56 N 24 41 E
Soviet Deportation Car. 1941. RESTRICTED.

XYZ-4...htingary Pest Pilis Solt -Kiskun Budapest 47 30 N 19 02 E
Hangsen leers strangling noose about neck of enemy of Communisa
in courtyard of old Marko Jail. 1948. CONFIDENTIAL.

XYZ-5...Hungary Pest Pilis Solt-Kiskun Budapest 47 30 N 19 02 B
Erenies of Communism are strangled in courtyard of old Marko Jail.
1948. CONFIDENTIAL.

XYZ6...USSR Lithuanian SSR.
Corpse of the rector of Lankeliskiai tortured to death by
the NIVD. 1941. RESTRICTED.

XYZ-7...USSR Lithuania SSR
how of corpses of Lithuanian workers in sugar refinery murdered
by the MVD. 1941. RESTRICTED.

*   *   *
4-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Confidential

17 May 1951

PHONED SILB
Lou Scherer () phoned to say that he hai to sao Levitas, editor
of New Leader, in connection with a new project, and with coveral other matters,
Tould The to see him for about an hour. Cor han sigested I ask Doris
Shib to arrange the apointzent.
I phoned Boris Smb, and phoned Scherer back that Shib would rest hin
at 10.50 a.m. tocorrow in the bookstore balou (?) the it office at 7 5. 15 St.
Shub will introduce Scherer to Levitas at 11.
Re PICTO FOCK
Boris said there are 3 matters which we can liva pithak, bat 18
would distinctly strengthen the book if you would perhapo get thes at the
Library of Compress,

(1) It is conceivable that there exist photos of crowds being fired
upon in Nov. Jan. 1918-1918, in connection with risting on the dissolution
of the Constituent Assembly. (Seo Shible Lerin)..

(2) Fighting in Moscow, Nov. 1917 (There was no fighting in Petersburg).

(3) Collectivization. Sou think it is conceivable there coxist
photos of peasants being shipped north to Siberia during Collectivization.
Ch. CIA Graphics?
Cf. Library of Congress.

PO RUSSIANS AS ALLIES
Foris has just heard from a Pussian friend, and has sent to London for
confirmation-seen nothing in the papers about it here that there has been
formed in London & BRITISH SOCIETY PORAPS RUSSIA, with la for Hilton (anthor
and ex-military attache in Moscow) as president and the Duchess of Atholl as
vica-president. Encouraging, he thought.

He also mentioned the FREEDO!! UNION FOR GERMAE PUSSIAN FRIENDSHIP reported
in the Day 11 if iterald-Trib, with Layor Boutor and samo Russians among the
marbers.

RO FHOTO BOOK

LAY-CUT of the book received from lanson in SP/Hi today.

SECRET

*   *   *
4-00000
19 May 1951

DICK

Our can "can Libs ithout, but it would holp greatly to tie the
book together,"
1917-
(1) Photos of crowds being fired upon during rioting, Nov. Jan. 1918,
in connection with the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly.
Page 282 of Lenin by David Shib says: "The Assembly was scheduled
to open on the morning of Jamiary 16, 1918. In anticipation of the long-
avaited event, Lenin ordered a detachment of Lettish sharpshooters to
PET OG AD (St. Petersburg, now Leningrad, might be disted under any one
of these names in Graphics files?).

(2) Fighting in Moscow, Nov. 1917. (There was no fighting in
Petrograd, he says).

(3) Photos of peasants being shipped north to Sitoria during
Collectivization. Some think it "conceivable they may exist.
That would be around 1932, 1931 I guess.

He suggests trying:
1. CIA Graphics, Bldg 14. (itr. Kessinger, used to be cx-2657
2. LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.

I. Bcattie too).

You could ask Chuck Vetter whother he could arrange for you, without
too much trouble to get into the place and borrow any photos they have,
in the name of CLA, for a month or a couple of weeks (longar, if possible of
course) for our man to make copies of.

I think it really would improve the book if you could get (1)
for them.

Many thanks.
PSS

*   *   *
4-00000
INCOMING TELEGRAM
26
Department of Starz
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
SECRET

Contra: 11327
Rec'd: April 23, 1951
:
4:51 p..
α
IE
FROM: Frankfort
10: Secretary of State

P
GER
OLI
CIA
DCR

NO: 8583 April 23, 8 p.m.

Recent discussions with Lunt, INP, pamphlet with comic,
Soviet combative possibilities proposed, with thought
giving publication attribution to local group to be
determined. Urge INP's publications branch dummy up
along following lines for production here: pocket size
format, eight pages. Cover to carry photograph Stalin
in friendly greeting with high-ranking, current party
boss in good standing from one satellite countries.
Title to reflect theme "Stalin's friends". Each page
of inside book to carry photograph Stalin in friendly
pose with such fallen, e-time heroes or friends of
Sov Union as Trotsky, Hitler, Bucharin. Tito, Clementis
or others dependent on existence pictures in archives.

Captions for pictures can be taken from one of two sources
or both. Either original photo caption or quotation from
that era when "friend" was in favor, or a later quote from
a denunciatory statement concerning the fallen man. Possi-
bly both quotes could be used, the former above, the latter
below the pictures. Suggest most careful research be made
for most succinct quote to carry off this idea. Request
reaction soonest.

MCCLOY
PAF:DES

SECRET

Copy for SP/PW
files.

REPRODUCTION OF THIS
MESSAGE IS PROHIBITED

*   *   *
4-00000

RE
STALD MOTO POCK
18 May 1951
Cmit
All
(also KGUNNY Communist C00)

SDS gam LINISON from 11 to 12.40

17 May.
A thorough review of the whole set-up. Munson stressed two points:

(1) "The book must be locked up by July 1. Otherwise it couldn't be
printed in September. And in that case it might be necessary to wait till
about next Warch.

(2) "It must be the sort of book that Doubleday might be putting out."
Firstly, because if it is too propagandistics the rotallers just won't handle
it (of details re C. Zoo). Secondly, Swen is still secure, stands up well under
Dun & Bradstreet examination, and has bean a great success in the FE. It has
the NY reputation of a Far Sastern fira which does unusual things in the US.
Swen as a going concern is more important than any one book: the book shouldn't
be allowed to jeopantize Swen by being too obviously propaganda,"

I returned the layout to him. (He has not seen the text either, nor I think
the other 60-old pages). He doesn't plan to tell Shub we've seen it. He
recommended that we give Shib another week to continue on it. Then that,
about Monday, May 28, Sims and/or Bryan go down to MY for 2 or 3 days and
work with Shub on it,

NB: He said that, later, it might be possible for Shub to introduce на
to his collaborator as an informal consultant when he'd called in. In other
words, in attempting to sell our views of it to Shub, wo have also the problem
of whether Shub could sell then in turn to his collaborator. and Security.

We both gave our vieme of the book at length.

Lyle's views included: that with the text it may be botter than it looks;
that theress 66 pages to come; that it is better to get out something than
nothing; that we can always do a 2nd or revised version; that we must face facts
and not put out a book which a high percentage of retailers simply won't handle
He also, at the start, said something along the lines of what I regard as
Shubian erroneous doctrine: that we should show the responsibility that the
USA and Germany (Hitler?) had for the stain of affairs in the USSR, I said all such
things might be sub-themes, if they could be tucked in without detracting from
the main themes, but that I thought they were very dubious: 172 pages isn't enuf
to show what a bad man and regime it is.

My views, agreeing with mich he had said, included: that we ought to put out
something that the man in the barber-shop, anywhere in the world, would leaf
through and couldn't turn over more than 3 or 4 Ronsecutive pages without beginning
to think: "This really must be a bad man, killing that many of his om cabinet."
That we should not attempt either an exhaustive or even consecutive chronological
treatment of the 71 years since 1879 or even since 1905 or 1917. Just hammer home
main points, such as that they had a Constituent Assembly, until Lenin killed it
by force and fraud, etc.

CECRET

*   *   *
4-00000

That the main themes should be such as: SECRET
He kilis & kills & kilis chith-constianity
He lies & lies & lies + audt.
They defect & defect & defect
The worshippers return disillusioned, in droves
The top CP men get liquidated as soxi as Stalin takes over, in:
Bulgaria
Hungary
Czechoslovakia (Clementis trial coming up), etc ete

NO
That what we should include is the things that differentiate them from us,
after everything that can be said against us has been said: The things they
DO DO, that we don't do..

That we are putting ourselves behind the Suball, to invite interminable
arguments in ro diplomatic history. Historians are still arguing about whether
England, Austria or Russia was most responsible for WWI. It is folly to maste
space attacking Stalin because he fought the Finns in order to get better defenses
for Leningrad, as we might fight anyone who threatened the Panama Canal. Or even
to try too hard to pin Wii II on him. (It is still at least arguable that it wd
have taken place, in some form, even if Russia had still been Tsarist. After all,
there has been mich carnage long before Stalin was even born.)

We should, to be suro, touch the iar and Peace there, which means so much
the world over. But the way to do it is to establish beyond doubt that the
man is and always has been bad, ditto the regime, they both tolerate no
opposition: therefore they are, in "self-defense" estransionist. But let us do
this with broad, repetitive strokes, not got bogged down in the details of
Munich, the Finnish War, Pearl Harbor.

We agroad that the best we can do, in all the circe, is to x try onca
more to sell this view to Shub, and content cursolves with whatever result mo
can get.
In view of past failures to sell Boris on the subject (at least on nany
points), I'm not too optimistic. I think we should:

(1) Devil's advicato him on the pictures we think should be scrapped;
(2) Get a promise from him that he will give some space to certain topics
such as the SLAVE LADOR MAP and a display of, say, a dozen of the "ll Years
in Soviet Camps" type of authors; a display of the "Goo That Failed" men
I stressed that JBIII and self would be only too deligated if boris cạn
convince us it is better than we fear.

RE $90,000, I asked what about this figure, which I had heard mentioned
yesterday. Lyle said that Swen's investcent in it would be amounting to about
that. I asked if FE or SP would have to produce that sum. He said NO, Swen's.
budget is sufficient to cover it, as is.

RE ROYALTIES FOR SHUB. He said the collaborator would be getting 75,
which he thought might bring him in $60,000. He thought it might be justifiable
-"discuss it with Legal and Joe that Soris's contract should be amended so
that he would get a portion of the royalties that nominally come to him, insofar

SECRET

*   *   *
4-00000,

3
as they exceod his anmial salary. I asked what portion?" and Lyle said
#oh, perhaps or 1/3, which, if the excess were $12,000 -a figaro ile
suggested as possible- would bring him in an extra $4 or $6,000.

Shub's contract with CIA expires 31 Dec. 1951. His contract with 3wen,
Lyle pointed out, would still be in effect after that. 1 But his contract with
Xxn CIA would still no doubt obligato him to return royalties to CIA, 1.0.
Swon, even after 31 Dec. 1951./

I said this mightn't be a bad idea, as Shub may tend to go somewhat
sour, seeing his collaborator getting his much larger sslary and 7 royalties
on top of that. On second thoughts, however, it is doubtless a very poor
precedent and we could perhaps obtain and quote to Shub CIA Legal's opinion
to that effect that OPC employees should take royalties fron commercial
enterprises with which they happen to be connected,

I believe he is paid quite a generous figure, which ought to keep
a married man with no dependents ahead of the Collector of Internal Revenue.
If not, or if it is thought he is really worth more, the possibility of
suggesting to him a salary raise, when his contract as Agent comes up for
renewal, could be considered. At any rate, in the interests of keeping his
morale up during the final phases of work of the book, I suggest the whole
matter should be handled not too brusquely.
:
RE "COMMUNIST 200", and refusal of many US retailers to handle it, see.
attached Memo of Record of what. Munson told m
:
Munson We have to face plain facts. My experience with "C2" shows
that we have to mix in glasses of orange juice with the castor oil. "C2"is
about as vicious as the traffic will bear. If the "Stalin" photo-book smacks
too strongly of propaganda, a lot of retailers just won't even handle it.

CONCLUSION, We should stay in NY long onuf to

(a) Hear everything Shub can say in defense of his version;

(b) Do a strong devil's advocate job against the pages we think
he should delete
(c) Insist that, in the remaining 66 pages, certain topics must be
adequately dealt with: Slave Labor, Defections, Cultural Purges,
Purges of top Communists in Iron Curtain countries.

(d) Hope for the best and be prepared to accept what may be a not too
satisfactory bargain, especially in view of what Igle says about
retailers, and about mintaining Swen's reputation.

SECRET
7733

*   *   *
4-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

17 May 1951

PRONED SHUB

Lou Scherer (NE) phoned to say that he had to see Levitas, editor
of New Leader, in connection with a new project, and with several other matters,
Would like to see him for about an hour. CMP had suggested I ask Boris
Shub to arrange the appointment,

I phoned Boris Shub, and phoned Scherer back that Shub would meet him
at 10.50a.m. tomorrow in the bookstore below (3) the NL office at 7 E. 15 St.
Shub will introduce Scherer to Levitas at 11.

Re PHOTO BOCK

Boris said there are 3 matters which we can live without, but it
would distinctly strengthen the book if you could perhaps get them at the
Library of Congress.

(1) It is conceivable that there exist photos of crowds being fired
upon in Nov. Jan. 1918-1918, in connection with rioting on the dissolution
of the Constituent Assembly. (Sea Shab's Lenin).

(2) Fighting in Moscon, Nov. 1917 (There was no fighting in Petersburg).

