14-00000
104-10164-10032 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM: TO: CSCI - 3/753,661
WE/2 MARION E. LINDE DATE 11 February 1959

NO. OFFICER DESIGNATION OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS to whom. Draw line across column after each comment.)
1. C/MZ/2
2. 11 FEB 1959 CI/Liaison
3.
4.
5. RI/AN dec
6. RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
7.
8.
9.
10.
11. 13 FEB 1959
12. "BLOCK MORRIS"
13.
14. RI/2/MIS cm
15. ABSTRACT INDEX
DATE 12.11.1959
16. RI/2/FI

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED
14-00000
SECRET 13 FEB 1959

TO Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attentions Mr. S. J. Rapich

FROM : Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT : Mollie BLOCK; Morris BLOCK / 201-194231)
No 201
1. The following information on Subjects has been received
from the Dutch Internal Security Service (BVD).

2. On 4 November 1958 Mollie BLOCK (born 6 November 1911 in
New York), holder of American passport No. 116708, left Schiphol
Airport in Amsterdam on a KLM flight bound for Moscow via Warsaw.
She traveled with her child Johanna Morris BLOCK, born in 1950, who
was said to be in possession of a Greek passport. Mrs. BLOCK had
originally planned to fly to Moscow on 2 September, but her trip
was postponed by the circumstances outlined below.

3. On 30 August 1958 Morris BLOCK, husband of Mollie BLOCK,
arrived at Amsterdam on a KLM flight from Montreal. BLOCK was
carrying American passport No. 921617, issued 12 April 1956 but changed
by him to read 12 April 195" so that it would appear to be still valid.
Morris BLOCK was refused entry to The Netherlands on the basis of his
falsified passport. The American Consulate in Amsterdam validated
his passport for a single return trip to New York, and he was sent
back to New York on a KLM plane at 2359 hours on 30 August 1958.

4. Morris BLOCK was born in New York on 30 March 1920; he is
a machinist by occupation, and his home address was given as 238 Corbin
Place, Brooklyn, New York. BLOCK's passport carried the following
stamps

England IN via London Airport 23-7-1957
OUT via Dover 24-7-1957
IN via Dover 16-10-1957
OUT via London Airport 16-10-1957

France IN via Brussels Ein-7-1957
OUT via Strasbourg 25-7-1957

SECRET CS COPY 201-194231
1-5D

14-00000
SECRET

Denmark IN via Kastrup Airport 15-10-1957
OUT via Kastrup Airport 16-10-1957

Canada IN via Montreal Airport 17-10-1957

BLOCK stated to the Dutch passport control officer that he had
visited the USSR 25 July 1957 - 15 October 1957 as a delegate to the
World Youth Festival held in Moscow in 1957. BLOCK stated it was his
plan to travel from The Netherlands to Moscow and to settle himself
and his family there. He said his visa for Russia was ready at the
Soviet Embassy in The Hague and that since he was not permitted to
obtain a new valid passport, he had changed the date of issuance of
his former passport to make it appear to be still valid. Since he had
not known for sure that he would be allowed to depart from the United
States, his wife and child were to take a later plane to Amsterdam
after his wife knew he had reached Canada. He said that he had been
unemployed in the United States and that his wife had had to support
the family on her salary of $65 a week.

5. BLOCK stated to the Dutch passport control officer that there
was only one country in the world where freedom was really possible,
and that he wished to go there. He no longer wanted to live in
America, for the laws were made there by three or four families and
the rest had to fall in line. He had had more than enough of the
clique around Eisenhower. He stated he no longer valued his American
nationality and asked if they could not admit him so that he could
apply to the Russian Embassy. He said his wife had the money and
tickets for the trip to Moscow from Amsterdam.

6. BLOCK had with him a suitcase and a cage with a parrot; his
wife was to take the rest of their belongings with her. Also in his
possession were:

a. Membership book for District 65, Retail, Wholesale, and
Department Store Union, AFL-CIO, 13 Astor Place, New York 3,
issued to Morris BLOCK - 238 Corbin Place, Brooklyn 35,
Membership number 50923, membership paid up to 25 August 1958.
In addition, he carried a District 65, AFL-CIO Employment Office
Guide giving a registration date of 19 July 1958.

b. Birth certificate No. 66265, issued by State of New
York certifying the birth of Morris Block on 3 March 1920.

c. Two visiting cards on which were: BK 15145 and BB 31054.

d. A small pin with the legend "VIth World Festival of Youth
and Students Moscow 1957".

e. Two visiting cards, on which were:
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

Stanley FAULEINER, Counselor at Law, 9 East 40th Street,
New York. 16, Lexington 2-7760. Hunter 7-4093 was written
on this.

Stella ELIASHOW, Remedial Reading, English Tutoring,
56 Seventh Avenue, New York 11, New York.

7. BLOCK also threw away a used piece of carbon paper which he
obviously did not want to have with him or his return to the USA. The
carbon read as follows:

WINDSOR Clothing Company 27 August 1958
97 5th Avenue
New York City, NY

For Mr. Jack KLOERT
1 round-trip United Air ticket 162.2.361424 $ 54.90
La Quardia-Cleveland-La Quardia - 10% tax 5.49

For Mrs. Jack ELGERT
1 round-trip United Air ticket 162.2.361425 $ 40.85
10% tax 4.02

$105.33

8. BLOCK had $63 with him. A room had been reserved at the
Hotel Krasnapolsky in Amsterdam for him and his wife, since they had
planned to travel together to Moscow on 2 September 1956. On his
departure for the United States, BLOCK explained as follows: "Oh,
now I have to go back to the United States, but I have no money and
I also had not paid for the trip, or what more can happen to me?"

CSCI - 3/753,461

Distributions: Prepared by: Marion E. Linde
Orig & 1 - FBI 10 February 1959
1 - RI/AM
1 - CI/R&A
1 - CI/Staff
1 - ME/2

SECRET 1376
201-194231
