14-00000
104-10175-10085 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

VIA ATR
(Specify Air or Sea Pouch)

DISPATCH NO. 101-A-1552

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

DATE 29 June 1954
TO : Chief, WIDE
FROM: Chief of Mission, Mexico City

SUBJECT GENERAL-Operational
SPECIFIC-Subject of BMW-1507

REFERENCE: MVL-1507, 18 June 1954

Trw-975

1. Subject is contacted by a member of this Mission about twice a month usually on a semi-social basis. Subject is quite familiar with the workings of Washington based on his experience in Panama, his frequent visits there, and his contacts with this office curing the year. From time to time subject provides bits of information or opinions ca local affairs which he thinks may be of interest. Ways in which he could be of further operational use have also been discussed with him in general terms. Subject has provided his name for use in registering a station automobile and for obtaining postoffice boxes.

2. Subject appears to be well versed in some of the operational methods of the organization and has always expressed a willingness to assist in any way possible. This might include acting as a cut-out, famishing general political and Communist information, setting up cover establishments, and the development of informants in several fields. To date, no specific opening for his services has been evolved but it is highly likely that such a spot will appear in the future.

3. This Mission foresees no strong obstacle or reason against subject's being contacted by KUJUMP again but feels that if subject had any information of possible interest to this organization he would immediately contact the writer. In addition, such a contact might possibly re-kindle subject's previcusly expressed feeling that at times it appeared that "the left hand didn't know what the right hand was doing". It is suggested that if KUJUMP has ary specific type of infomation in mind, questions indicating the line of interest could be forwarded to this Mission and placed before subject for his comment. If KUJUMP particularly desires to interview subject it is suggested that this Mission be authorized to so inform subject so that the matter vill appear completely coordinated in subject's mind.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

201 30999

FORM NO. 51-28
108 1949

RI COPY

14-00000
HMRA-1952
29 June 1954
Page two

4. This Mission appreciates the receipt of reference as an excell- ent example of such coordination.

jmkyusan
Gordon M. Ryerson
GAR/crt
20 June 10,
Distribution:
V3-Wash
2-Files
201 20000
SECRET

14-00000
AiA
NE-061-167
...18 1004
: Chief of Mission, Mexico City

: Chief, ID

- Operational

- Subject of TO--775

AFP: TO--976

1. A representative of A rece tly contacted subject, a ".3. anufacturers representative, who lives in Mexico City. After KUJUMP made its standard explanation of BARK interests, the subject said that he felt that he should make it clear that he worked for BRK in Mexico. Fe qualified in Mexico enabled him to set up to places and front offices as well es other cover projects for KUBANK, ACID and .

2. Subject seemed multe candid and had no reason to believe that he was not teilling the truth. Subject doubted what he could give URL a proet deal of information which was not available through official atencios o orating in Mexico. Forever, he seems to be morally cledgeable on the situation there and feels that he & be a source of 1:08 interesting information if their contacting him would not interfere i arrangements which your Hission wint have made with bia.

3. Headquarters rempestar cants regarding subject. Meese scrise.es span as possible, since I would like to contact subject again men he returns to this country in July.

11 June 194
Distribution:
3 - Kexico City 1 - H/Chrono
J. C. ENG
CH
1 - H/Hailroa WH/III/HJOgden/jw
1- Subj.

J. C. KING
O. M. DOEFLINGER

201. 30999
ABSTRACT
DATE APR 2 1955

14-00000

HMM-W-
Chier, FI/Plan/Cover

Chief, Contact Division, 00

Alfonso R. Wichtrica (HH-1265)

Bost 266
11 May 1954

1. A representative of this Livision recently contacted subject, a US manufacturers representative, vao lives in Mexico City. Wichtrich was visiting representatives of two chi Corporation which is one of his accounts in Mexico City. After our representative made his standard ex planatica of agency mereة عن ماذtrich said that he felt that he should make it clear that is versed for we agency in Mexico. de qualified this statenent by saying wat die extensive background and experience in Mexico enabled dia to set up neeting places and "front" offices as well as other "cover" projects for this Agency, we State Department and the Pureau.

2. He seemed quite canció and our representative had no reason to believe that he was bir telling we truth. wicatrich courted that he could give us a great deal of information which was not available through official agencies operating in Fexico, However, he seems to be generally knowledgeable on the situation there and we believe that he might be a source of some interesting information if our contacting his would not interfere with arrangements which the covert offices might have made with hia,

3. We should ppreciate your comments. If you prefer, we shall not see him again. On the other hand, if you have no objection, we should like to contact hia when the returns to this country in July. Please advise.

E. M. ASHCRAFT

201 30999
ة
14-00000
OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: AIR DISPATCH NO.7MM-W.976
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH
SELE

CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief of Station, Mexico
FROM : FLT DATE: 1 February 1950
SUBJECT: GENERAL.
• WICHTRICH, ALPHONSE R.
SPECIFIC. Operational

Subject of T--975

1. Subject was engaged by our field station, Panama, in October 1947 with the thought that he was qualified to organize a net directed aminot a target of high priority interest. His services were termicated in April 1549 when he took residence in Mexico for business reasons.

2. The Chief of Station, Fancas, corpsed its man as having great singleness of purpose which produces aperior results in the field of his primary interest. But the experience in anava rempaled that the subject's primary interest - his business- business was sich that he have little time to work as an agent.

S. The Subject or guated an inteligopos net for the U.S. Aray in China during Ford rack, therefore, understands covert operations. Despite his capabilities, proven reliability and his expressed desire to to of service in caxion, encertare cos est recommend that the subjost be enraged by field station, ico, aless there is unusual need for a man of his background.
RECLASSIFIED
:
RE
EMR:gee
RI/Files por 201 43-28 m. Wheeler
Tgan
STC 201 30999

RELEASING OFFICER ASTRACTHEY

DATE AP2 55

COORDINATING OFFICER PC15 AUTHENTICATIA
FORM NO. 81-20 OFFICER
JUN 1948 SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

14-00000
SECRET
ROUTING AND HECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "to" column. Under each comment vine should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the nuser in the "To coluen. Each officer should initial Check mark insufficient before further routing. This Recore and Routing Steet should be returned to Registry.
FROM:

FOT 10. TRP. A. 650
DATE DATE
TO ROOM DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS
NO. RECED FOG'L INITIALS
1. Connelly 26 We
2.
3.
5.
1.
9.
13.
11.
22.
13.
14.
25. Reid

FORM BO. $1.10 4-20 SECRET 201 30999
APO 1348 ABSTRACT
APP 2:55

14-00000
VIA:
OFFICIAL DISPATCH

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH DISPATCH NO. 732-1-630

SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ
CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 16 Januar 1950
FROM : Chief of Station, Panama City, Ponаmа

SUBJECT: GENERAL agents and Teforments
SPECIFIC- Subject of TIP-A-629

The actress of subject is:
Royal Crown, S. L.
Cante #4
Mexico, D. F.
Fairte

Distribution: Tash 2
Files 1

FORM NO. 51-20 SECRET KAPOK
APR 1947 CLASSIFICATION
 Howard intell
201 30999

14-00000
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "To" column. Under each comment a line should be dram across sheet and sach comment numbered to correspond alth the number in the "To coluan. Each officer should initial
Check mark insufficiont before further routing. This Record and Routing Sneat should be returned to Registry.
FROM: No. 0. DATE
DATE G3P 4-6 89
OFFICER'S INITIALS 1622050
COMMENTS:
TO ROOM DATE FOOD FDT 2014 oh
1.
2. 25 Jan 25 ώθεα 354 Please esiin this disp.
Rodriguez with Vandervoort re a recommendatio
Feild Station Medico
3. Reid mu
adviced of Hiperole
petean abrevalen
medico. Dispstekas
written by cove
Tmm-41-975
5.
6
7.
12. Counally 6 ne
Reid
13.
10.
S9 1514
FORM. NO. 14. SECRET 201 30999
31.10 ABSTRACT
DATE APR 2 1955
O80 Περίσων
JAN 23 180

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH
DISPATCH NO.10
VIA:
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 16 Jamar 1950
FROM : Chief of Station, Panama City, Fanara.

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Agents and Intornants
SPECIFIC FOROL

The services of subject had been terminated prior to zy arrival at this station and, in fact, subject has not been residing here since my arrival.
く
- hocinace in and was introduced to me by
HEDPACD. In the course of the conversation, subject indicated a desire,
after he becomes more settled in lexico City, to have contact with our office there.

Since Headquarters and particularly Creter J. TAPING are in a better position to judge subject and whether he might be of assistance to our station in Mexico City, no recommendation is being made.

The address of subject will follow in a separate dispatch.

Fairte
Distribution: Tash 2
Piss 1

FORM NO.
ΔΡΑ 1947 91-20
Foward. Antell

REGISTRY COPY 01,30999

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

14-00000
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet) should be used in the "To" column.
Under each comment a line should be drawn across steet and each comment numbered to correspond
with the romber in the "c" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: FOT ACCESSION NO.
P.A.607
DATE RECEIVED IN S. A

TO ROOM NO. DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS
RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS

1. Pal

2. copy detached you
Rein Ben reser
3

10
11.

12.
ABSTRACT
DATE APR 21 1955
13
14.
153

FORM NO. SI1-10
SEP 1945 SECRET (1333)

14-00000
OFFICIAL DISPATCH
VIA: AIR
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH DISPATCH NO. TZP-A-607

SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ
CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 4 November 1949
FROM : Chief of Station, Panema City, Panama

SUBJECT: GENERAL Administrative
SPECIFIC- HYDROL

For the completion of Headquarters' records, advice is herewith furnished that subject's services are not being utilised by the Panema City station.
Ta wa made on to Headquarters under date of April 12, 1949 in TZP-A-454.

No further action is contemplated in connection with this project.
;
BOS:rtp Bruce O. Sturgens
Distribution: Fast 2 Bruce 0. Sturgess
Piles 1

FORM NO. 51-20 SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ
APR 1947 CLASSIFICATION
201 30999

14-00000
MD PORNO σε
Office Memorandum
TO : Chief, Registry Division
FROM :Chief, FBT
SUBJECT:Hydrol
File No. 202-999
• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: 15 June 1949

1. Subject file is transmitted herewith for retentior in Registry. The project has been terminated.

2. Appropriate indexing has been completed.

3. Access to subject file must be cleared with the Chief of FBT.

Noti
100t 54
Carded in Riflo

201 30999

14-00000

SLCRET 8 June 1949
Data

LECRANDUM FOR CHEY, CONFIDENTIAL FURIS
SUBJECT: Authorisation of Field Project Experaitures for Panama City, Para
(field installation)

1. This will infort your of the authorization of the follodas Field Projects and cy approval of the expercture of special funds for the following:
PROJECT 1949 TOTAL
LOUSES AUTHORIZED
Name or Sרבכס 1 Jal-30 Sep. 1 Oct-32 Doc. מעל 30-Jan-il ar. 1 Apr
HYD FOL Tered nated
1 April 1949

2. The project expenditures hored Panama City, Pamerged agsinst the appropriate quarterly Operating Expenses c

ec: TOFF W. U. WHEELER, JR.
Chie, Foreign Franch

201 30999
TOTAL

14-00000
VIA:
OFFICIAL DISPATCH

SPECIFY AIR CR SEA POUCH DISPATCH NOTE-454

TO : Acting Chief, FET DATE: 12 April 1940

FROM : Chief of Station, Fanara City, Panara

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Agents and Inforzants
SPECIFIC- RYTECT Operational Feview

ΟΡΗΕΑΤΙΟΙAL HEVTA
COUNTRY: YAR. FERIOD COMETED: October 194 March 1949.

1. Subject is no longer an active operative of this station. ile was forced to discontinue his activities on our behalf because of the press of per- sonal business. ELCAIC is now in contact with Hi ACID and HITROL I has been taken over by HOROFHCHIC.

2. During the period of his connection with this station, ane.CL failed to submit any informational rerort which in itself merited transmission to the Home Office. None of his operations were clean in the sense that a U.S. Covernment influence had to be introduced into the actual activation of each of his sources. This coupled with the fact that he lacked follow- through has given a slightly sour aspect to all of his operations. Te intend to discontinue our connections with Subject.

25 Jan 1750 Woring
Grover J. Karing
to apply for a stoff position
Were this mou to ap that he bed comploye
mon of great puglioness of perfore
GJzemh

Iistribution:
Wash (2)
Files (1)
Would ecomend to Humaytreet on the athis batil the quality
which igen
est to a la feffoflagel
an gine
Aprovech #homecha drawback
to
prefem.OFGSTRY COPY

an gine

201
FORMND. 31-20 CLASSIFICATION
APR 1947

14-00000
と

DOCUMENTS IN DOSSIER

TZP-A-102 TZP-151 ZP. W.975
IZP-A-381 TLP. W.976
IZP-A-454
A-690
A-684

Name check

Project teenstel, Gyond 1945
Rj
201 30999

14-00000
i
Lemorandum for Chief, Special Funds
Hydrol $150 for second quarter 1949

Terventet 6 January 1949

201 30909

14-00000
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet) scald be used in the "To" column.
Under each comment a line should be trawn across sheet and each comment mmbered to correspond
with the Lumber in the "To" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.
FROM: FAT

TO ROOM NO. DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS
RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
201 30999
1. Burton 2216 BSTRACT
DATE APR 21 1955
2. Field informed by despatch
on 9 Dec. thit them profes
snot to be actions an
3.
Directed to allot$50.0
5. er month for Hydrol
and an addition 600
6
for colay and expensin
7. of this sub a gent

8.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14. SECRET (1333)

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH
VIA: SPECIFY AIR OF SEA POUCH DISPATCH OP-301
SE-Kapok
CLASSIFICATION

TO : Acting Chief, FET DATE: 22 November, 1948

FROM : Chief of Station
Panama City, Pacoma
SUBJECT: GENEPAL- Agents and Informants

SPECIFIC HYDROL Operational Review and Project Report

Ref: H No. 51
TZP-151
TZP -A102
TZP - 321

COUNTRY: YAWNER OPERATIONAL REVIE

OBJECTIVES AND PERIOD COVERED: 20 October, 1947 to present.
TASKS:
Subject's original assigment was the estab- lishment of an intelligence net for the Republic of Panama with a view to developing infomation on our varicus YANNER objectives. The assignment was too bread because sub- ject is establishing a new business and has not had sufficient time to devote to our work. Eis activities were redirected along the lines of cultivation of specific individuals. His cultivation and recruitment of the informant HIDRACTD was excellent. His hand- ling of the subject of "ZF-A-200 was ex- cellent. His handling of HYDRATANTAC has. been unsatisfactory in that he has not spent sufficient time on the project. He states he will correct this deficienty. His latest assigrment is the penetration of communist circles in the Patioral University of Panama. He has recruited an excellent individual for this purpose who will be employed at a salary of one Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150.00) per month. This project is approximately one year old.
To date subject has rot received a salary, but has been compensated socially and by

FORM AJ.
APR 1947 51-20 SALARY
201 30999

St-Kapak
CLASSIFICATION

14-00000
-2- 4- 331

EVALUATION OF making purchases for him in the govern-
SERVICES: ment commissaries. We plan to place him
on a salary status in the Mure.
this is done we intend that his solary be
One Hundred Dollars per month (100.0)
per monts. He no longer has cover in his
activities as concerns the C. 3. Am in
tais area. This is due to the fact theyGen.
Sibert CARCarib attempted to recraft him
as an amy informant after subject hat
perfomed two week's active duty with
Army Intelligence. To avoid refusing the
General's request, subject Infomed him
that he was processing his infomation
thrown LIE. Since that date, amy CIC
men have called at sebject's place of busi-
ness inquiring for information. However,
we seen to have his real loyalty and we are
the ones who can provide him with funds to
cultivate sub-agents.

EVALUATICH OF As stated above subject has perfomed ex-
INFORMATION RE- cellent services but has not devoted a
CEIVED: great deal of time to our work. His in-
terest has greatly increased since you
permitted HYDROL to receive home office
training. He has fairly good contacts and
is capable of cultivating almost any one
we might wish. His services should become
more valuable in the immediate future.
To date subject's intelligence information
has only been valuable as a supplement to i
OTHER FACTORS: other sources. His operational infomation
has been excellent and is of real value.
He is more interested in the operational
side of cur activities than in reporting.

This agent has been handled as outlined
in T2F-151 subject to the modifications
COMMENTS: of increased social contacts necessitated
by the fact that subject's wife is in-
terested in the social advantages to be
gained from her husband's activities.

We plan to continue using this agent to
cultivate other potential agent personnel.
His primary continous project will סס דפי
the penetration of communist activities in
the National University of Panama. We may
rearrange the relationship between EDROL

SECRET - Katok 201 30999

14-00000
-3-

REQUEST:
SEET-Kapak TZP - 321

HYDRACID and 3DE in view of CORACID'S current schooling. This project is still in the development or probationary stage in that HYDROL's background is such that he regards the sky as the limit in the expenditure of Intelligence Mads and is inclined to commit himself financially without real assurance that we will receive full value for the funds expended. Realizing that time is an impor- tant factor in the development of high level operations we hope this will prove to be the most efficient expenditure of our funds. If not we will convert the funds to other projects. As a matter of operational er- zacization we feel our ultimate objective in this area should be to ferret out and operate with a nimimun number of skilled American resident agents. Offsetting the criticism mentioned stove are the facts that subject man of och e and definitely a high level operative.
It is requested that Project FOL be soproved to pemit an expenditure of Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) per quarter.

Shovel Waring

cover
1 30999
SECRET - Katok

14-00000
Interview with Alfonso Rudolf Wichtrich by Paul P. Paxton

1. On 17 November 1948, the subject called at Que Building and was interviewed by Paul P. Paxton. He had been advised to pay his respects to Harry A.. Real by the Chief of Station, Panama City. The subject to learn what the procedure would be if he wished to offer his services with CIA at a future date. At the present tire he is managing the Royal Crown Bottling Works in Panama City and is negotiating for a franchise to distribute a milk product in that area. His primary purpose in coming to the United States at this time was to make arrange- ments for this latter business venture. The subject has been aiding the Chief of Station in Panama for the past year in a manner that has been extremely helpful to our operations. During the war he was a Lt. Col. in United States Arsy Intelligence serving for a considerable time in China in an undercover capacity. He gives evidence of being very well versed in intelligence matters and shows, keen appreciation for security matters.

2. He stated that within six or eight months his private business affairs in Fanama would be developed to the point where he could accept. a position with this Agency in a full-time capacity. He evidenced interest in either the Latin American aras an in the von ",עולמן China. Imade no commitéments as far as future employment is concerned but I did suggest that you visit this headquarters on his next visit to the United States providing he is in a position to accept full-time employment. I recommend that his application be given serious con- sideration in the light of his past intelligence experience and by virture of his valuable assistance to our operations in Brass.

201 30999
14-00000
FORM NO MR 25963-Pалата Сатаб-1-29-48-1,000
APR 1847

VIA: OFFICIAL DISPATCH
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

TO : Acting Chief, FBT DATE: 9. July 1948
sqw
SCORET
CLASSIFICATION

FROM : Chief of Station
Fanama City, Fanara
SUBJECT: GENERAL Agents and Informants
SPECIFIC Operational Data - HYDROL

Ref - TZP-A-102, TASH/F 8786 and PACY 188

BIOGRAPHICAL DATA

1. HYDROL.

2. Subject's background has been with the U. S. Army in China, where he crganized a complete intelligence net. He is an organizer and planner and best qualified for the supervision of intelligence nets and inforzants, and intelligence operations in general.

3. He is a very personable individual and has the facility for getting along with Latins. He is very well accepted even though he has been here only a little over a year.

4. in Latin America because of his knowledge of Spanish. He is also well qualified to operate in the China Theater in view of his past experiences, although he has no knowledge of the language.

5. Subject makes frequent business trips to Mexico.

6. Subject has discussed plans for expanding his business into South America.

7. Subject has five people working for him. (a) HYDRACID; HYDRAVANIC; and the subject of TZP-4-269. He has also cultivated two unwitting informants, one of whom is a fairly prominent Arnulfista and the other is a socially prominent Panamanian and businessman on whom we will submit biographical data at a future date. (b) None of the people are paid. The subject of 1ZF-4-269 has been informed that we will defray any expenses which he may have incidental to our operations. HYDPACID has expressed a desire to have a savings or retirment fund cpened for him in the United States. This we have agreed to do and estimate that the cost will be about $100 to $150 per month.

10-8 SECRET
CLASSIFICATION 201 109.99
(708)

14-00000
Stonet
8. Lo.

9. In view of the fact that subject contacted the Home Office prior to his departure from the United States, he is thoroughly cognizant of the ultimate destination of his information.
10. Yes. In view of HYDRCL's experience in the intelligence field he has been given the assignment of supervising and controlling the activities of HYDRACID who has an excellent knowledge of the local situa- tien but lacks experience as an intelligence operative. This also serves to maintain EYDRACID's cover.

11. Through letter drop. In addition frequent personal contacts take place between FYDRCL and the Chief of Station. These are usually at night at the homes of the individuals concerned. Cover is provided in that the Chief of Station and ETROL both have children attending the same school and the wives are acquainted sccially.

12. Subject usually reports orally, accompanying his oral reports with brief notes. He is training the subject of TZP-4-269 and ZY-RACID to re- port in writing.

13. During the 14 years subject has been in Panama, he has been principally concerned with establishing his own business. He has devoted only a srail percentage of his time to our wrk to date, however, since he is now better established and better oriented, it is contemplated that he will become more active.

14. Contract with subject is oral. & written contract will be pre- pared at the time he is placed on our payroll.

15. Yes. He is attempting a high-level penetration of the Partido del Pueblo. At the present tize, a foreign national who has been approached by HYDRACID is attempting to buy one of the Directors of the Partido del Pueblo.

16. Subject is quite capable of using his own judgment on the sort of work he is to do. Since his time has been limited in the past, he has confined his activities to projects specifically requested by this Station.

PAYLENT

17. Subject is a volunteer informant who is rewarded for his services by the occasional presentation of exchange commodities. Since subject does not have U. S. Government Commissary privileges, purchases on his behalf are rade by the Station. This results in approximately 60% reduction in the cost of necessities purchased in this manner.

18. Ies. Salary arrangements have been discussed between HYDROL and the Chief of Station. We both agree that no salary should be paid until such time as he becomes more productive. It is contemplated that when we actually
-2-

SECRET AF 201 30999

14-00000
SECRET

start peyeont the figure will be something less than $150.00 a month and it will probably be placed into some sort of a savings account. This plan may be placed into effect at any time.

19. Subject has been informed that we will defray all expenses incurred by him on our behalf.

20. No cost of purchase of information is involved but he is author- ized to engage in this practice.

WALUATION OF SUBJECT'S WORK

21. Subject appears to be a highly dependent individual. (a) The accuracy of his reports have been good. (b) From a security angle he is excellent.
22. In view of subject's previous intelligence background, it is believed he is only suitable for semi-covert work.

23. Subject is unquestionably a high-level operative and quite possibly might penetrate any of the local social or government circles, but again his background from China is such that it would probably be in- come to accomplish a penetration of any leftist organizations or foreign intelligence agencies.

DOTA SECRET
10-20
-3- 201 30999
TAPOK

14-00000

3.3
YAGUAZA
Pamama
138550
PLCT 183
29 Har 48

20130999

14-00000
:
WICHTRICH, Alfonso Rudolph

Panama
IN 38550
PACY 188
29 Mar 48

201 30999

14-00000
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

: Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : FBT DATE: December 23, 1947

FROM : CSB

SUBJECT: WICHTRICH, Alfonso R.

Reference is made to your memorandum of October 31, 1947, wherein you request that this office conduct a four way name check relative to the above- entitled subject.

This is to advise that a four way check was instituted concerning the subject, with the following results:

L-5 Nothing identifiable
L-3 No record
L-1 Nothing derogatory.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of a report obtained from the files of Confidential Goverment agency 1-2 + 1 requested that this report be re- turned to this office when it has served its purpose.

The above completes cur action in this matter unless advised to the con- trary.

ROBERT H. CUNNINGHAM
Chief, Security Branch, 050
1 Incl.
L-2 Report
dufo Info sent to field
on 26 December 1947.
??
TIP- Q-102
SECRET 201 30999

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
WICHTRICH, Alfonso Rudolph 4 December 1947

On December 3, 1947 the investigative files of Confidential Government gency (L-2) were examined and disclosed the following:

Included in the file is an Investigative report dated June 25, 1943 regarding one. Captain Al. R. Wichtrich, may Serial Number 0377220, which revealed no adverse information regarding Subject. It was men- tioned, however, by four informants that Subject's father was suspected of having pro-German leanings during World War #1, but these suspicions were not verified by the informants. Persons interviewed vouched for Subject's father's loyalty at the time of the investigation.

It was noted that Subject's Personal History Statement dated February 16, 1943 indicates that he was hom on Co" - פירו . OS- tigation verified the fact, however, that Subject was born in Chihuahua, Mexico on October 30, 1915.

In a casual conversation with another of- ficer, Subject volunteered the following information with rospect to records of his birthplace. Subject stated that he had no birth certificate and had moved from Chihuahua Mexico to El Paso, Texas, with his parents, when he was one or two years of age. Subject stated that he had never inquired about, nor realized that he was born in Chinama until he was in high school, having proviously presumed tüst he was born in the locale in which is childhood was spent, Viz; Willcox, Arizona.
Subject stated further that he gave his birthplace as Willkox, Arizona on his application for en- listment in ROTC to eliminate conflict with any previous records which would then require act of "red tape" in making what he considered then a minor discrepancy of no consequence, inasmuch as his father's naturalization auto- matically made him (Subject) a citizen of the United States.
It was the opinion of the officer making the above report on Subject's birthplace; that any conflicting records of Subject's birthplace was not due to any nocives of subterfuge, but was most probably due to Subject's desire to expedite his entrance into college without oncountering

CONFIDENTIAL 201 30999

14-00000