٠٠١ :
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RON
Interal Princ
)ול
104-10225-10007
14-00000
SECRET

Official Personnel Folder

العشاق
322024
303 74-57067
IMMEDIATELY AFTER URE
RETURN TO RECORDS CEN

SECRET
4
WILLIAMSON, EARL J.
IVATED
EARLY 60389
D
truid 19 Fit Euth
67 Ju
Jou Entel

14-00000
1:
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
Filed let
DATE PREPARED

1 SERIAL
060359
3. HANS La-mu-Maddie)
Williamson, Earl J.
J NATURE MASONNES ACTION
1
4
Cob
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

TEAS
Conversion and Retirement (Voluntary) MONTH
under CIA Retirement & Disability Sys 663072
& FUNDS
A010
A OSA
43
ORGANLATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDP/WH
Branch 6
Office of the Chief
P
11 POSITION TITLE

Ops Officer, Ch
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE 165. L.B, sk.)
GS
18 REMARKS
From:
FSR 3/5
DAY

DOLA
OPTOO
7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO
CHARGEABLE
2135-0620
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
30 May 1972
S CATEGORY CA ELLOTMENT
Regular
8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Pel 85-643

Washington, D.C.
12. POSITION NUMBER
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
15
1844
IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16 GRADE AND STEP
17 SALARY OF FATE
0136,01
15 7
$30,701

1154 Telecond ow/6/28/72

1 Security 1 Finance
18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
th
27
Livenet
DATE SIGNED
18B. SIGNATURE CARTER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICE
DATE SIGNIO
Ma
Henry L. Berthold, C/WII/Pers
22
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
19 ACTION 30 LEPOT 21

COCE
COCE
311
2AAT ARR AMRR
(00
"
45/10
1111
25
お】
atst Eats
COOL
pesa
17 LOWL (
+
200

SECRET
25
1
"
:
100 DATA
وجي
C

14-00000
()
Name (Cast-First-Miadle)
CERTIFICATION OF SEPAMTEG EΠΛΟΥΕΣ

Earl I.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD - APPACH TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER
I hereby acknowledge the receipt of the following foms and/or infomation conseming
separation from CIA as indicated by check cars:
1. Standard Form 8 (Novice to Federemployee about Unemployment Compe
2. Standard Form 55 (Notice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees' Croup
Life Insurance).
3. Standard Form 56 (Agency Certification of Insurance Status, Federal Employer
Group Life Insurance Set of 1954).
4. Standard Form 2002 (Application for Refund of Retirement Deductions).

5. Form 2595 (Authorisation for Disposition of Paychecks).
12.
6. Applicable to returnee (resignee from overseas assignment).
I have been advised of my right to have a medical examination b১০০০৩
my separation from this Agency and of the Importance of such a
check to my health and well-being.
Appointment arranged with Office of Medical Services.
Appointment for rice of Medical Services examination deeling.
7. I have been informed c: "sontlist of interests" policy of the Age
foresce no problem in this regara concerning yow employment.
8. Form 71 (Application for Leave).
9. CSC Pamphlet Si (Re-employment Rights of Feceral Employees Porcorang
Forces Duty).
10. Instructions for returning to duty - Extended Leave or Active ...
50.00
a poy
Cal Mindhausenc
Asad test, City, State in cate)

14-00000
:
Y
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WII Division

THROUGH
SUBJECT
: Acting Deputy Director for Plans
: Certificate of Distinction for
Mr. Earl J. Williamson
15 SEP 1970

The Honor and Merit Awards Board is pleased to notify you
that the Certificate of Distinction has been approved by the Executive
Director-Comptroller in recognition of Mir. Williamson's sustained
superior performance. Security consideratione relevant to the award
are contained in the attached memorandum from the Office of Security.
Arrangements for presentation may be made with the Executive
Secretary, Honor and Merit Awards Board, extension 3645, room
412, Magazine Building.

Att
Distribution:
041-Addressee
D/Pers
1 Exec Sec/HMAB
1
Recorder/HMAB
/8/RLA Jr.
R. L. Austin, Jr.
Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Board
OPF w/forms 382 & 600
A
:
OFF

14-00000
REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD

The Honor and Merit Awaris Bears having considered a ressentation
ECIA
060389
SE OF ASSIGNMENT
CS/WH
AWARDED
WILLIAMSON, Earl J.
1915
SCHTAS GA
D
GS15
Certificate of Distinction
FOR HEROIC ACTION ON
FOR MERITORIOUS SERVICE OR ACHIEVEMENT COBEN THE PERIOD

RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
RECOMMENDS AWARD OF
UNCLASSIFIED CITATION
NEMARA S
350
estry
29 August 1972

M Staif
June 1952- June 1972
DOES NOT RECOMMENDAYAL

Mr. Earl J. Williamson is hereby awarded the Certificate of
Distinction in recognition of his sustained superior performance
throughout his Agency career. Since 1952 he has served in a variety
of important positions in Headquarters and overseas in which the
superior quality of his performance was sustained by his akillfal
leadership and dedication. In each assignment he has shown un-
swerving dedication to duty, good judgment and the ability to respond
quickly in demanding situations, Mr. Williamson's overall contri-
butions to the mission of the Agency reflect credit on him and the
Federal Service.

(Recommendation approved by ADD/P on 11 August 1972)
:
Is W. E. Colby
Executive Director

/s/lHarry B. F
Harry D. Flaher
14 SE
L!
"
: in
?
R. L. Austin, Jr.
332***.....*

14-00000
: ניייי
Certificate of Di
Virginia J. Williamson
L IN NESIATE
LIST ANY of
FOR NEX
O IN AC
2
26. LOCATION

27. INCLUSIVL
29.
VAILING CLOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OUSTACLES ENCOLATALO
১১. CAT PHICH AAA 420されていたな
ECCATION FOR
ASIC
24.ICIAL AS
Recommendation covers entire career

Chief of 1/5
1000 p *۱۰)
Chief of 76
OFF
253

14-00000
OPF
オー
Mr. Nilimior entered on duty with the Agency in June 1952, after
having serve With the Army. SC, - 1242 to 1949 and, 1, storequently,
as Chie
Intelligence Branch in the Paname Zone Government
from 1949 to 1952. in January 1955 he was appointed Deputy Chief of
Station. Kovana and remmined in this cition until January 1959 when
he was reassigned to Headquarters. Willianson served as Deputy Chief
of Station. Murid, from res through, and Deputy Chief CẾ TH
Division Com Operations Group 200 to 1008. He assumed the
position et etter of Station, don, San Joas, in June 1996. Since Aur
:
Mr. Will
encompas
a has been assigned as Cer,
The important Chile arce,
in,
April 157
Branch 6, which

Mr. Williamson has held positiera of responsibility from the very
outset of his Agency carcer. While comonstrating annie quelitics of
leadership and excellent managerial, his consuming interest Lies
in the refl heart of Agency activitfar the production of intelligence
and the conduct of actions against or tarjots. This was high-lighted
uring his recent mur as COS. S. Costa
The last year of his tour
was marked by two extremely delicate, ghly productive operations
targeted against the Communist Party of Costa Rica, and a political
action creussion of a nest sensitive mature stewing from ther.
This
latter operior, focused as it was around the president of the country
1.
7.
3.
Theodore C. Shechley
AVITS OF LIESS C

26 JUL 1372
1:

14-00000
:
-comm
cted for cod geod
:
ca how to rs.. ..
sensitive cad
OFF

Over the ye Mr.;
cective in 10
1:
..
pproach and geraine int problers or rep.c
sentatives of foreign countries, he has been able to
enlist support for our operatiン。
Puring the past year, the tas of supervising the
1. Chile Branch has been a most challenging one. Chile
has become a kaotty foreign policy probles, and is the
subject of continuous and extensive discussions between
tihe Agency, the State Departrent, and other components
of the Government, while receiving the attention of tho
rost senior policy makers. Requirements from many
Girections have required constant pressure to respond
with ideas, methods, proceres and the subsequent
position papers. Through it all Mr. Lilliamson has
maintained a sense of balance and professiomlisa
which permits a proper focus on the crisis of the moment.
We have been fortunate in having an officer of Mr.
Willicason's caliber in this position during such a
difficult period.
In recognition of Mr. Willieson's demonstrated
continuous superior performance as a senior intelligence
officer, which has contributed to the accompli ishment of
the mission of the Agency, it is recommended that he be
awarded the Certificate of Distinction.
,

14-00000
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L

21 March 1973
Dear Earl:
You have just completed, at my direction, seven weeks
of full-time service on the GS-13 Clandestine Service
Personnel Evaluation Board, I know that this work has been
particularly demanding. Your participation and diligent
application of your professional experience have been
decisive factors in the successful accomplishment of the
Board's missions.
In the course of this assignment you have become
thoroughly familiar with the use and interpretation of per-
sonnel files and personnel practices of the Clandestine
Service. Having reviewed and analyzed the files of one
hundred or more CS officers, you have had to make judgments
and recommendations concerning their relative-ranking and
their qualifications for promotion, for training required
to overcome a deficiency or enhance career effectiveness,
for changes of assignment to further career development and
for Quality Step Increases to recognize outstanding perform-
ance. In so doing, you have carefully studied the career
development of a large number of officers in all components
of the CS, both as individuals and in relationship to each
other in terms of morit and value to the Clandestine Service.
You have become familiar with a broad spectrum of
personnel and administrative problems on a practical working
level and have acquired a knowledge of personnel management
which will better equip you to handle supervisory positions
which require personnel reporting and career development of
subordinates. The committee format of the panels has also
deepened your understanding of the conference approach to
management problems.

Hr. Earl Villiamson
Bu Division
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L

14-00000
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
I wish to commend you personally for your participation
in an evaluation procedure which helps to strengthen the
Clandestine Service Career Service. A copy of this letter
will be included in your official personnel file so that
your supervisors and future Evaluation Boards may make due
note of this service.
Thomas H. Karamessines
Deputy Director for Plans
2
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L

14-00000
いい
1. SIRAL NJMNT
060389
SECRET
(Two Ididdle)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
NAME-First-Moddle)
WILLIAMSON, EARL J..
4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
DAV
TRAS
3 NATURE OF PERSONNER ACTION
REASSIGNMENT
VIOV
V100
& PUNDS
στον
X
100
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDP/WH
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT
DATE PREPARED
8 JUNE 1971
S CATEGORY OF EMPLOTMENT
06 13 71
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO
CHARGEABLE
1135-0623
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
REGULAR
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
WASHINGTON, D.C.
11 POSITION ITTLE
FSR OFFICER
OPS OFFICER CHIEF
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, L.B. etc.)
13. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
FSR
GS
18. REMARKS
0136.01
FROM: DDP/WH/FF/SAN JOSE/0198
COMPLEMENT
12 POSITION NUMBER
9997
16. GRADE AND STEP
03.5
15 6
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
D
17 SALARY OF RATE
25,087
-$28,291
HB:WH

SLOTTING IN DEVELOPMENT PENDING ISSUE OF PCR FOR BRANCH 6 (NEW).
Kother
* For You, Costa Rica,
2- SECURTTY
6/24/1
1- FINANCE
Ja
DATE SIGNED
188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DATE SIGNED
IBA. SCHATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
F
HENRY D BERTHOLD, C/WH/PERS
20 ACTION 20 EMPLOY 21
COCE
COCE
3718
COCE
Station
ALPHABETIC

LODE
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
DFF1 (006
MAREC
WIS
LODE
41
11

SECRET
1671

14-00000
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
DATE PERPARED
28 September 1971
I SHRIAL A
MAME - mit Moddle)
060389 Williamson, Earl J.
3 NATPERSONNEL ACTION
Reassignment
6 FUNDS
۷۲۵۷
X
POO
626
4EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
DAY
TEAS
09
22 71
7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO
CHARGEABLE
2135-0620
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
3. CATEGOWY OF EMPICYMENT

Regular
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
ORGANIZATIONAL OPSIONATIONS
DDP/WH
Branch 6
Office of the Chief

11 POSITION TITLE
FSR Officer
Ops Officer, Che
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. L.B. om.)
FSR
GS
18. REMARKS
Home Base: WH
Washington, D.C.
12 POSITION NUMBER
(15) 1844
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136,01
16 GRADE AND STEP
03 5
15 6
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
D
17. SALARY OR RATE
25,087
$ 28,291
*Waah., D. C.
From
:
DDP/WII/Dev Comp
1- Finance
18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTINO OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED
188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVINO, OFFICER
DATE SIGNED
21
Henry L. Berthold, C/WH/Pers
C
100)
HUMERIC
22 STATION
C004
ALPHABETIC
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNSL
19 ACTION 25 EPLOT. 21 OFFICE CODING
100F
37 10 51480 WH
750135
24 MOG185 21 DATE OF BIRTH DATE OF GRADE
COPE
MO
04.
MO
17
COCE
20
0. 04
COPTRES
19.
10
-
-HEA
RETIMENT DATA
1
31 SEPARATION
JATA CODE
32 (0(110N CARCILLATION DATA
TYPE
DA
FOD DATA
CATE OF LEI
MO
DA
XK
29.0
35 VET PREF!
CODE
41
DA
RO! WETE
ニチコ
en ys
1000
۰۱ آموزم ON COMIDY STETOCARON
115:
17 1086 (OMP DATE
04
15 LARIER CATEGORY
cone
שה קח
of US L
COCE
43
O HAVhalcone

SECRET
1001

14-00000
:
es: 20 OCT 71
SECRET
(When fully in)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
ODF
SERIAL NUMBE
2 NAME LASTシンルン
060389
WILLIAMSON EARL J
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT
FUNDS
FPECTIVE DATE
S CATEGORY OF EMPLOIMENT
09 22 71
REGULAR
VTO V
V TO CF
CF TO V
X
CF 10 CF
2135 0020 0000
/ Fingneral Analysis No Chargeable CSC OR OTHER ITGAL AUTHORITY
50 USC 403 J
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DOP/WH
BRANCH 6
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF
WASH.,D.C.
12 POSITION NUMBER
11. POSITION TITLE
IJ SERVICE DESIGNATION
FSR OFFICER
OPS OFFICER CH
1844
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB arc)
IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
14 GRADE AND SIEP
17 SALARY OF FATE
FSR
GS
03 5
10136.01
15 6
25087
28291
18 DEMARKS
WASH.,D.C.
HOME BASE: WH
SPACE BELON FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
28 Me 25 DATE OF BIRTH
Code
10
ACTION 20 Emplo, 21
CODE
37
OFFICE CODING
MINIEK
51480 WH
22 STATION
COLA
23 INTEGREE
CODE
75013 S
70 SPECIAL
REFLUENCE
10
MPT CATA
SEPARATION
DATA COU
ها
