14-00000
104-10171-10013 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
NO
Chief, Task Force W
TO
Chief of Station, JM
SECRET

FROM
CLASSICATUN
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE
SUBJECT:
UFGA/Operational-Fransmittal of CA; Reports
ACTION REQUERED REFERENCESI
REFERENCES: UFGA 3787, 16 April 1968

ACTION : For your inferastion

Transmitted herewith are CIA reports, numbers 134 through 149, and 156.

An Index is attached.
END OF DISPATCH
Attachments: (Herndth)
CLA-14 thru 149, 1 cs.
CL-156 (1 copy)
CAA Index, in duplicate
Distributions
3-  /, w/atts. (4/4)
SECRET
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

16 Apr 62
APR 20 1962
DISPICY SYMBOL AND JUMBER
1931-3846/3

25-130-33

1400000
-137
CIA
12 April 1962

515-503
Chief, Task Force/M
Chief of Station, JHWAVE

Operational/GIROGE
DIE, Santiago de Duba

ATTENTION REQUESTED: W/KUCAGE/NTURE. 06

1. On 9 April 1962, Jose Antonio Sacens (ca "Che"), born
11 April 193, Santiago de Cuba, Miami acress: 0 Elisa Saturni Casas, 06
1619 Meridian Ave., Apt. C-10 Miami Seach, telephone: JE 2-2641, vas
Interviewed.
2. Source said that during the revelutica he was a member of the
DR in the University of liebena. After the revolution he went to the
University of Orinc, Santiago de Cuba, and eventually became the DRE
chief for the city. In regard to his former association he had no
operational leads, claiming that all contact with PR members terminated
in 1959, and he knew no one who attained any stature in the Castro
Government.

3. As DRC chief for Santiago, the source claimed that he hal 50
members who he considered well organized and capable of any type of
action. He said that there were, and are, other nembers, but he docs
not consider then in the same category with the 50 who are organized into
cells. He said cach cell has nine men. There are four cells in the
University of Criente and two in the high school.

4. He said that he left Santiago in Harch 1962 and turned the DRE
over to his deputy. He then went to Habana and informed the DRE leader-
ship that the second in command had taken over and he was told that
llabana would initiate contact with the new leader. (Note: Since close
relations are maintained by the JRAVE Station and the DRE, no attempt
was made to press the source for naves and addresses, etc., as this in-
formation can be obtained in subsequent outside debriefings. The JHHAVS
Officer responsible for the DRE operational matters was informed of the
source's arrival and processing.)

5. Source said that at the time he left Santiago, the remnants of
the Catholic student organization was trying to make contact with the
DIE and he believes that by this time this contact has been made. He
said that the DRE member who was following this matter, and who would
follow through, was a blind person.

6. Listing the arms and supplies in the possession of the DRE in
Santiago, the source said that it has about 5-6 pounds of plastic remain-
ing out of a shipment of 20 pounds which was received fron the DRE in
Habana. He said the DRE in Santiago placei babs in places where the
explosion would not injure anyone. As far as arms are concerned the
source said that the Dực in Santiago has ten caliber pistols; five
38 caliber pistols; one M-3; and one Toray .

7. The source furnished the following KUTUBE-type information:

14-00000
CIA - 137
page 2
a. He said that his father is in Jail in Puerto Boniato,
and that in order to try and get him free, the source went to see Major
Delarmino "Anibal" Castilla, the chief of training for the Palma Soriano
Military Dacaarnent, whom he knew fron their days in the Santiago High
School. Source made his plea an: "Anibal" told him that before he could
act upon it, he would have to talk to the source for five hours in order
to determine his political orientation. The source replied that he did
not come to talk politics but to picad for his father. "Anibal"
answered that he would think about it and call the source one vay or
another, but he never called. Source thought that this story adequate-
ly demonstrated the (Corrnnist) political orientation of "Anibal."

b. The brother of "Anibal" (pera 6a above) is "Bertico"
Castilla, first name possibly Alberto. He resigned from the army and
is now living in Santiago, but the source is not clear on "Bertico's"
political orientation.

c. Electra Fernandes, the wife of Mendez Coninche (the
Santiago G-2 chief), is no longer the civil head (confssionado) of
Santiago. She is now the president of the Federacion de Mujeres Cubanas.

d. The source has given a complete military nap of Oriente
Province to the DRE member he left in charge of Santiago DME (see para 4
above). Information is passed from Santiago to the DIE in Habena and
the latter, in turn, is to forward the information to the States.

e. Source said that his contacts who work in Nicaro report
that the Nicaro-Mayari Arriba area is restricted and that unknown types
of military installations are being constructed.

f. The foreign instructors in the University of Oriente con-
sist of Czechs and Chileans. The Czechs have started a new medical
school in the university and the Chileans have taken over the Business
Administration Courses.

Nelson L. RAYHOCK

14-00000

SECRET

ATTACHONT TO: UFGA-3846 Dated 16 April 62

CKA 134: Arturo Ines Rodrigues: A 12 895 717 (SEE UFGA - 3866)
CKA 135: Jorge Pastorpoll Comes: A 12 A45 206 (SEE UFGA - 3866/1)
CKA 136: Omello Julian Garcia Gonzales: A 12 995 817 (SEE UFGA - 3866/8)
CKA 137: Jose Antonio Sadurni Casas: A 12 875 90 (SEE UFGA - 3866/3)
CKA 138: Raul Sanchez Rodrigues: A 12 895 874 (SEE UFGA - 3866/4)
CKA 139: Justino Pelayo Buncio Peres Pogueres: A 12 835 872 (SEE UFGA-3866/5)
CKA 140: Ramon Alonso: A 12 895 841 (SEE UFGA - 3866/6)
CKA 141: Kallio Alejandro Arrasate: A 12 995 866 (SEE UFGA - 3866/7)
CKA 142: Hector de la Presadilla Fuentes: A 12 490 361 (SEE UFGA - 3866/3)
CKA 143: Manuel Clods-Castillo: A 12 395 666 (SEE UFGA-3866/9)
CKA 144: Benigno Soriano-Hernandes: A 12 615 610 (SEE UFGA - 3866/10)
CKA 145: Antonio Toms Gonzalez Crespo: A 12 875 929 (SEE UFGA - 3866/11
CKA 146: Alejandro Profirio Camacho Gonzalez: A 22. 895.939 (SEE UFGA - 6/12)
CKA 147: Joaquin Antonio Jimenez Jimonos: A 12 875 93 (SEE UFGA - 6/13)
CKA 148: Antonio C. Samper Marrero: A 12 903 024 (SEE UFGA - 3866/14)

CTA 149: Donald Arrowsmith Boulets: A 12 903 013 (SEE UFGA - 3866/15)
CKA 156: Alberto Hernandez Dolst: A 12 895 949 (SEE UFGA - 25/16)

SECRET
