14-00000
104-10143-10088
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III
15 November 1974

:
ANNEX B
THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter PLB 70-1-1, 27 October 1966
REPRODUCTION
ProPROHIBITED
1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-
terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent
information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying
subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for
producing lists of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-
tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify
opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-
zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-
spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each
individual in the system to serve as
identifying file number for reporting on that
individual.
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form
831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-
sonal history, current status and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of
a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and
stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved for special listings.

d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an
Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent
within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-
erence consolidated.

23

SECRET

PAGE 20
COPY NO.

14-00000.-

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

0002 CROIX, WILLIAM PENDLETOL 201-0032671*
1 SEX M DOB 12 APR 26 TYPE NAME T-
2 CIT GERM OI CODES AA XX-(10)
3 AACD-1234530 ROB GERM BERLIN RCO DATE 53
4 OCO PHARMACIST
5 OCC CODE CHAN
6 SUBJECT RECENTE ATTENDED THE SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL
CONFERENCE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHEMISTS
AND PHARMACISTS HELD IN MUNICH GERMANY PROM 22 THROUGH
29 ОСТОВВВ
ОСТОВВВ
PROHIBITE
NOV 70 00833555

14

Information About Subject
1. Sequence Number and Name
2. Sex and Date of Birth
3. Citizenship
4. Place of Birth
5. Occupation
6. Occupation Code
7. Text
Document Reference Data
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
8. 201 Number
9. Name Type Indicator
10. OI Codes
11. Record Date (year only)
12. Reference
ISG Control Information
13. Date of latest update of the record
14. STAR Index Record Number

24
SECRET

FACE 3 of 20
CORT NO.

14-00000

C
C
(

SECRET

(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

e. OI Code: a two letter symbol used in
sonality records in the 201 system to record the
with organizations or activities of interest. Ol codes cover intelli-
gence and security service affiliation whether staff or
suspect, as well as activities of interest. There are two categories of OI
codes for use by components of the DDO:

(1) general OI codes
(Attachment E)

(2) OI codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services
or other specific organizations.

A component may request an Ol code be established by submitting a mem-
orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management
Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An OI code may be assigned
when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see
paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added
at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201
personalities by OI codes. For example, if an Of code has been opened for the
security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members
of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on
names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers
exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER
a. General

EPRODUCTION
The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com-
ponent, in coordination
Services Group. An opening creates
a master 201 record Changes to Changes to the master record and the occasional closing
of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISC. 201 dossiers may be
opened on persons who meet the carding criteria described in Chapter II of this
handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information
will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on:
persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-
sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those
persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals
are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff
↑ employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on

25

SECRET

PAGE 4 of 20
CUPY NO.

14-00000

SECRET

(
C

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk
and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO
records system and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require-
ments on ISG for automatic 20k openings on
gs on certain categories of persons whose
names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2. 201
dossiers should be opened to the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational
approval and operational ap-
proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested
for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-
tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than
denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Index search reveals information in five
or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/
ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting
a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form Request Form 831) to the Records Main-
tenance Section (IP/RMS) Form 83t is also used to create or amend the
master 201 record and
to register the assign-
assignment of a
cryptonym
a 201 personality. Hachment 2 consists of sample
201 Personality Fedon Request for opening Fite Dedon Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field
station may request the opening the 201 file by writing 201- in the Head-
quarters file or cross-referees box on the dispatch form and/or after the
subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening
is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by
placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN
will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-
bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of
201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26
SECRET

PAGE of 20
COPY NO.
14-00000-

SECRET

(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into
his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through
a name trace or other process, i.e., review of
documents, it must
be consolidated into his personality cared
See Do
70-20 for consolidation
includes but is not limited to:
procedures.
Material which is
fion
dossier
a. 201
Personalit
File Action Regu
(Form 831).

b. Biographic infa
vncluding photographs, fingerprints, and
handwriting samples.

?
1

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

l. SGSWIRL repo
productions.
m. Newspaper
n. Any information
PRHIBITEde a better understanding of the
subject and our interest in him this may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which
have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which
have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articles
on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

26.1

SECRET

PAGE of 20

14-00000-

C
C
(

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

a. Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires
discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the
simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take
place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done
periodically. A 201 dossier dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should
be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, ineluding copy(s) of a document.

(2) Name trace (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for
the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if
a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number
then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch
cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information
contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is
by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are att retained in a 201 dossier
downgraded for retention
forwarded to Central Files; the should
docum not to be
downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized
To officer in the originating office of the Records Officer having jurisdiction
over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification
authority. If the document cannot be downgrade
at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained
in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a
cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location
of the TS document.

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.
In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

26.2

SECRET

7 of 20
CCPT 30.

14-00000

SECRET

(
C

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

7

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash
number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

:-
(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are
to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to RXRMS for classification
into that 201.

(3) Field index cards
be retained in
the 201la part
should be mounted on
(if some desks) and area desk cards may
in a consolidation procedure.
Ra Eun-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201..

(4) A 201 dossier presione opened Don
a person who becomes a staff
employee and which contams Record Copy documents will be restricted to
the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be
closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true
name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest
should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material
has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified
to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an
OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and
Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing
to the 201.

(8) Desk memorandam information number)
containing subrogatory information on the subject of the 201
without a document source
should be sent to PLAn the PIA
of to be classified officially into the 201 file.
which should be separat
(9) An attachment document
which should be separated from its basic document
for inclusion in a 201 dossier will be forwarded with the basic
document to IP/AN for prossessing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document
remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document
in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,
or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will
automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may con-
tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the
file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-
tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).

26.3

SECRET

F
COEY NO. of

14-00000

つ
C

(
(
SECRET

C
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be
handled as restricted dossiers..

(11) An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201
dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a
Routing and Record Sheet with items shown below..:

REPRODUCTION
UNCLASSIFIED
ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
SHEET
SUBJECT: (
TRANSMITOL
MACTIVE 201 DOSSIERS
FROM
☑ SECRET
TO O
1.
IP/Files
GC-52
2.
2.
4.
5.
6.
8.
9.
10.
DATE
OAPICERS
INITIALS
DATE
COMMENTS [comment to sh
where line cancoach
(For guidance see CSHB 70-1-1,
Chapter III, Annex B.)
Volume(s) of volume(s)
of 201-

Restricted Dossier
(Attach Form 2021 to
Dossier)

Non-Restricted Dossier

Charge Dossiers:
11.
Il documents prior to
(date)

12.
forwarded
IP/Files. All

13.
(date)

14.
ytained
at
desk.
15.

CL BY: 007623
FORM
5-74
ΘΙΟΣ
X SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

26.4

SECRET

PAGE of 20

14-00000-

C
(

SECRET

(
C.
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any
period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk
officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.
Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer
ability (Form 2977) to the new
of Pransfer of Document or File Account-
desk officer

TO: ΜΑΜΣ
action
PR

CONFIDENTIAL
(when piilad In)
NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY
BADGE
::
COMPONENT
ROOM
TUBE
EXT.
This is to notify you that accountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited
below has been transferred to you by:
NAME
BADGE
COMPONENT
Accordingly, IP's records now reflect you as the custodian. Please contact IP/Files,
Ext. 4362, if you have any questions regarding this transfer.
SUBJECT OF REQUEST
FORM 2077PREVIOUS EDITIONs
1073
FILE NO.
DOC. SYMBOL & HUMBER
DOC. DATE
DATE
OF
TRANSFER
CHARGE
PERM
OF TEMP
ΑΣΩ. Но,

CONFIDENTIAL
CL 87: 007622

The new action desk officer must then
to change the action desk designation to insure that the
fillo 201 Personality File Action
Request (Form 813) to chan
201 personality will be included the Headquarters and field machine listings
for his component.

7. RESTRICTED DOS
a. Access to a sensitive 201
placing it on
desk or
restricte
may be restricted by holding the file at the
Central Files.

(1) The dossier may may be restricted by checking Box 2 on the 201
Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.

26.5

SECRET

PAGE 10 of 20
COPY NO.

14-00000

C

(

SECRET

(
C.
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
returned to Central Files for retention, a File Restriction Notice (Form
2021) must accompany the dossier)

(3) The dossier
mitting a File Restriction Notice Fo

IP/FI
TO
GC-52 TUBE DT-6
IP/DCU
GC-40 TUBE HT-4
ACTION DESK: 1.
2.
estricted and held in Central Files by sub-
de (Form 2021).

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
INITIALS
FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE
SECTION A
To restrict a file, complete Section A (signature of R.O. not
necessary).
To remove a restriction, complete Section B (R.O. signature
necessary).

FILE NUNDER
SECTION A
RESTRICT TO: (Use country or non-country code number. See CSI 70-28)

RESTRICTED BY:
COMPONENT:
(MANS)

Date:
SECTION B
REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUTHORIZED BY)
COMPONENT:

R.O. No.
Date:
FORM
2.73 2021 TIONS
USE PREVIOUS

CONFIDENTIAL
E-2, IMPDET CL BY: CG7:22 (13)

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the
personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier
held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple-
routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file
to the requester or deny the request and retur
desk will notify the requester of a denial
the dossier to Central Files. The

c. Anyone requesting
a res, or a document within a restricted
dossier, permanently or temporarily
desk by Central Files.
charged to a desk, will be referred to that

26.6

SECRET

11 of 20
COOK NO.

14-00000

(
SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

?
8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide
the identity of the
subject of a 201 number unless the 20f file is restricted, in which case the
requester will be referred to the restric

g desk.
IP/AIS will also provide de the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201
file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should
supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

D

Requests pertaining to fivevor fewer names or numbers may be made by
telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the
information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge
Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent
by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after
appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will
destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and
number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder
will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit
(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names
and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of
interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its
v alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening
the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request
(Form 831) leave the country of location the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)
blank, use the non country code 900 the action code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate
permanent charge to the responsible desk The only listing which will include the
201 number is the IP/201 record for the the Vital Records program. 201 listings are
categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's
interest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest

26.7

SECRET

11 of 20
0X 30,

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The
standard listings available are:
..
(1) Alphabetical by surname leading to a 201 number;
(2) Alphabetical by given name leading to a 201 number;
(3) Alphabetical by
ng to a 201 number;
(4)
ical, leading to a surname;
(5) Numerical, lead ing to a cryptonym.
LEADING
201 SURNAME ALPHA LIST
03 ICT 1973
SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY

NAME : TYPE
008 BIRTHPLACE OCC. CIT. 201 01-1 01-2 ACT.
CHEN, SO H2. 1/7115/1343/0001/ A DA/MOZYR 17JUL14 CCOM CHIN? 0165401
CNN, SO 1. 17185/1343/5030/ CTRY CITY CHINA C. IICY
CTPAN, SHOU 1. /7115/1343/0001/ P CHIN, AΨΟΥ 24 JAM11 DIPT CCOM? 0363751
CHE, SHCU-JF16774/1108/0038 A CHIN, FUXIEM, PROV. 210CT08 BUSP CCOM? 0363751
CHEY, SHOU NET DAJANL9 CHAT CHIN? 0234629
CHEN, SHOU-NING 17109/1343/690- S CHIN, HUNAN 1PHAR45 CHAT 0179620
CHAN, SHEU 51118 77119/1109/001 CHIN, CANTON 025EP26 CHAT CHIN HK
CHF SHCU-TAN CHIN CHIN
CHFY, SHC-13440/7115/1109/1074- CHIN? 0124438
CHEN, SHCU TZE 10701/1343/1807- 12JAN18 PEOP CHIN? 0164017
CHEN, SHOU-V61 /7115/1109/499- A CHIN, KWANGTUNG PAGV. 09 JUN99 CNAT CINA HK
CY. SH-CH14/7115/2295/6930
ENGR CNAT CHIN? 0130415
CPT SHY CAN CHIN USA
7115/3219/1221
CHIEN, SHU-CUAY 7119/2395/2381 D CHIN MHAI DIPT 0230859-
CHEN, SHU 17115/2-85/2797- CHIIN?
C41 CHIN TAIH
CHY, SHIH /7115/2785/3185/ CHIY CHIN CHIN? 0200223
CHEN, SHAAJ FIN 1905619 CHIN CHIN
CIAC22 CHIN USA
CHEN, SHU HSLY //115/2895/8133- 19 CNAT? CHIN CHIN? 0073195
CF SIP-3106 /7115/2785/7894- A 02.JUL 30 CHEM CHIN CHIN? 0172622
CHLN. SHU-P4 /7115/2579/0202- A 10DEC26 CCOM? CHIN CHIN 0223161
CHLM, SHU-SEM 17115/2895/2773- CHIN?
CHEN, SH-534 /7115/2579/0914 CHIN CHIN?
CHEN, SHU-TE 17115/2495/1795- A 27JAN25 CANO CHIN? 0179625
CHEN HWAI NIN7 0085119
CHEN. SHU 129 /7115/2025/2737/ S CHIN, KEANG CHIN TAIW
CHLM 72 7115/7647/0317- 15 JUNOG CCOM CAN'O CHIN CHIN
CHEN, SHU-YA/7115/2635/1031- 17FFB9 DIPT CCON? 0023196
CHIEN, SH-YIN CHIN CHIN CHI CHIN?
CHEN. SI YI /7115/2895/5301- CHIN ISEN CI CHIN? 0144010
CHEN, SH-14 /7115/2579/6992- 27NOV23 CAN CHIN
7115/2579/3942/0399- CHI? CHIN CHIN? 0144758

CHA.N. C14-
. CHIN, FANJIAN TANG IN
- SHU-LI-LI 7315/2579/2651/06 CHEN BUS
CHINUSA
CHINA USA
- SH L140 17107/2973/01064 C 01 JUL 29CCOM
C/7115/2579/7474- 1905619 CHIN LIACNEEC PRO CHIN US
CHN ETH
CIPROHIBITED, CHIN? 0179621
23ΡΕΠΟΥ CHIN? 0179673
L
R
::
CHEN, SHOW 171150647/66394- CHEN HWAI
CHEM, CHANG SHU 110406 CINT CHIN
/ARTHY, CHANG SHU 24.18.CHIN, CROM LACS CIA 04502818
CHEM, S1 NA 17119/2895/0589/- A 110406 NIA
CHEN, SHU-P4 /7115/2579/0202- CHIN CHIN
CHEN, SHU-SEM 17115/2895/2773/- A 0905390 CHIN LACS D:144010

SECRET/ORGANIZATION IMPERNAL USE ONLY
E214POFT CL JAY 05697)
PAG
150

26.8

SECRET

DICE 13 of 20
C. 30.

14-00000

(
SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

All standard. listings are cumulative; previous editions must be destroyed
upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely
sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.

2.
b. Non-Standard Listings

Based on one or more of the followin
(1) Country
:
REPRODUCTION
ection criteria.
of Don radion intelligence affiliation)
(2) OI codes (organization or
(3) Citizenship

(4) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)
(5) Occupation.

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,
a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the
OI code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ. A 201 personality list could also be
produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915
and. 1920, with the occupation computer specialist, who are now citizens of the
United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the OI code AA.
Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an
OI code AA. Those personalities with an OI code other than AA and those
with no OI code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that
persons who have not been assigned an Ol code also be included. Note also
that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific
as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The occupation code for a courier
covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one
occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice
some trade or manual occupation, i.e., carpenters, bricklayers, painters, mechanics
and electricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this category
will be included in the printout. These may be sorted
(arranged) according to any, but not more that three of the following keywords:
(a) Surname
(b) Given name
(c) Date of birth
(d) Country of birth
(e) Citizenship
(f) OI code
(g) Location
the

26.9

SECRET

14 of 20
i

14-00000

,
(

SECRET

(
C
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Sorts can be made within sorts. For example. 201 personalities may be sorted
alphabetically by surname within Of codes for given countries of location.
Because two Of codes may be listed for each personality, those names with two
OI codes would be listed twice

c. Scheduled Listings
PROHIBITED

Standard and non-standard
:
d. Special Listings
listings printed semiannually.

Unscheduled, usually non-standard, listings produced on a one time