104-10234-10115
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
14-00000

MESSAGE FOR: DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE
TOTAL COPIES:  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
ROUTING MOP
MARVIN FRANCIS:ack SECRET 1 TC
WH/C/PI/TC INDEX 2 FI
R. 1271 NO INDEX 20-040 3 CI
20 ZARCH 1993 FILE CILE NO. 201-720019 4 CA
RETURN TO LICH 7 PA
ROME BONN INFO: PARIS, GERMANY, FRANKFURT, DERN, GENEVA

A: DIRECTOR

• Dell INFO: VR FILE RID COPY
elez

ROME BONN CW/C/RF/SI
INFO PARI GANY FRAN BERN CITE DIR
GNVA
TYPICO APRON AUWHIP AMWEST
Som
REFS: A. ROME 9425 (IN 80558) (NOT SENT BONN)
92482
B. FRAN 2758 (IN 83177) (NOT SENT BONN)
C. ROME 9478 (IN 85022) (NOT SENT BONN) Grace

1. SUBJECT REF A PARA 3 TRACE REQUEST IS AMWEST/1 WHO
APPROACHED BY KUBARK APR 65 FOR RECRUITMENT. A/1 AGREED COOPERATE
BUT FOLLOWING AUG 65 TRIP PARIS REVERSED HIS DECISION AND REFUSED
RECRUITMENT. BONN C/O MANGANELLO (M) HOWEVER HAS MAINTAINED
CONTACT WITH AMWEST/1'S WIFE, AMWEST/2 WHO HAS CONTINUED BE COOPERA-
TIVE. M HAS BEEN REQUESTED OBTAIN CURRENT ASSESSMENT AMWEST/1
FROM ANWEST/2, AND IF ASSESSMENT FAVORABLE TO PROCEED WITH RECRUITMENT
OR DEFECTION OF AMWEST/1 ALONG PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISHED GUIDELINES,

2. FOR ROME, FRAN, GNVA: DURING BRIEF 23 MAR PHONE CONTACT
WITH AMWEST/2, M CONFIRMED THAT AMWEST/1 IS UPSET DUE RECENT ARRESTS
AND PURGES. AMWEST/2 STATED THAT AMWEST/1 TO MEET ANTONIO CARRILLO
IN GENEVA SOON FOR TALKS. AMWEST/1 CONCERNED ABOUT POSSIBLE REASSIGN-
MENT SINCE HE NOT PARTICULAR FAVORITE OF CARRILLO AND WAS FRIEND OF
AMLASH/1.
1
2
3. FOR BONN, ATTN MANGANELLO: AMWHIP-2 (IDEN BONN ONLY)
AMLASH-1
4
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
31-5 SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automate
deungracing ond
declasticor
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.

MESSAGE FO
TOTAL COPIES: DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
ROUTING
UNIT: INDEX SECRET 1 5
EXT: NO INDEX 2 6
DATE: FILE IN CS FILE NO. 3 7
4 8
TO
PAGE TWO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: INFO: VR FILE RID COPY

TO INFO
CITE DIR 92482

IS ROME ASSET. HIS WIFE OF CURRENT OPS INTEREST DUE HER PROPOSED
SUMMER TRIP TO VISIT SICK MOTHER IN PBRUMEN, WHERE SHE MAY POSSIBLY
CONTACT HIGH LEVEL PBRUMEN MILITARY FRIEND ON OUR BEHALF. BRIEFLY
REFS SURFACE POSSIBILITY OF DANGER TO AMWHIP/2'S WIFE DURING TRIP
DUE PROBABILITY PERUMEN AUTHORITIES AND ANTONIO CARRILLO
KNOWLEDGEABLE OF AMWHIP/2'S PAST BUSINESS ASSOCIATION WITH AMLASH/1.
DURING 22 AND 23 MAR PHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN AMWHIPS AND CARRILLO,
LATTER GUARANTEED AMWHIP/2'S WIFE'S SAFETY WHILE PBRUMEN. HOWEVER
CARRILLO'S CURIOUS REFERRAL OF AMWHIPS TO AMWEST/1 AS CONTACT DURING
HIS (CARRILLO'S) ABSENCE HAS RAISED THE QUESTION OF A POSSIBLE
PROVOCATION ATTEMPT. THIS PARTICULARILY VALID SINCE ALL PARTIES
CONTAMINATED BY PAST AMLASH/1 ASSOCIATION, AND DUE AMWEST/2'S STATEMENTS
RE CURRENT AMWEST/1-CARRILLO RELATIONSHIP.

4. VIEW ABOVE SITUATION, SUGGEST NO CONTACT BETWEEN AMWESTS
AND AMWHIPS. REQUEST REPORT DETAILS AMWEST/1-CARRILLO MEETING AS SOON
AS THEY CAN BE OBTAINED FROM AMWEST/2. MEETING OUTCOME SHOULD
ESTABLISH AMWEST/1'S FUTURE STATUS AND ALSO RESOLVE PROVOCATION QUESTION..
END OF MESSAGE
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
SECRET OFFICER
REPRODUCTION GROUP 1
Excluded from autorile
downgrading and
fication
COPY NO.
OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS COHIBITED.

MESSAGE FOR: DESTRO RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RI
TOTAL COPIES: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
FOUTING
UNIT: INDEX 1 5
EXT: NO INDEX SECRET 2 6
DATE: 3 7
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 4 8

TO:
PAGE THREE

IOM: DIRECTOR

INF: INFO: VR FILE RID COPY

INFO CITE DIR 92482

WH/C/RR/MHAPRON 8.4. Rok 5
C/MI/C/F1
WH/C/CICS
C/WE WE/3
EE/SA/S
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WH
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
SECRET GROUP 1
Excluded fromac
downgrading and
duclosurechao
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. COPY NO.

MESSAGE FORM DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE D
TOTAL COPIES 20 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
ROUTING MOP
ORIG: MARVIN FRANCIS:ack INDEX SECRET 1 TC
UNIT: WH/C/FI/TC NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO. 2 CI
EXT: R. 1271 3 CA
DATE: 29 MARCH 1966 A2- 4 PA
TO 1 BONN 31306 21 032

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONFI
TO BONN
DESENSITIZED
INFO CITE DIR 92483
ТУРІС КАPOK MHAPRON AMWEST AMWHIP
REF: DIR 92482

IDEN REF: JUAN VENTURA VALNER, CUBAN EXILE WHO OWNS
JEWELRY SHOP AND RESIDES GENEVA. MAKES INFREQUENT
BUSINESS TRIPS TO ROME.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/C/RR/MHAPRON 8. W. Robert
WH/C/CICS Last

RELEASING OFFICER EE/G WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WH
31-6 SECRET
GROUP
Excluded fromac AUTHENTICATING
downgrading and OFFICER
duc laureate
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. COPY NO
/EB/OFS
