14-00000
104-10071-10122

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TO: Chief, FORA
FROM: Senior Representative, (New Delhi)

DATE: 14 May 1955

SUBJECT:	GENERAL
SPECIFIC 
Operational/ INTEL
(PA)FLIPPER - Transmittai of Reporte

1.  Transmitted herewith are copies of THERLAULT reports and notes as listed below. Not included are carbon copies of the initial report (plans undated) and the report covering the period 28 December - 14 January as the third copy was not made.

2.  THERLAUT requested that, if possible, a set of his report be made available to him on his return to facilitate preparation of a master report on overall findings and impressions.

Enclosures Under separate cover
(Pouched 7 May 1955)
14 Jan.
23 Jan - 30 Jan
25 Jan - 8 Feb
30 Jan - 17Feb
18 Feb (1 pp)
20 Feb - 4 Mar

4 -7 Mar
7 Mar - 16 Mar
18 Mar - 30 Маг
Interview with U.S. HABAR,
NAGG, 12 Apr.
Notebook

Distribution:
Origs & 4 -He
9 May 55
2 - Files

Foad Co

HED GEAU

14-00000

SECRET

May 1955

Preliminary Debriefing of White THERIAULT.
Date: 13 May 1955, 2030-2100.

1. Prior to my departure for New York to handle the preliminary debriefing of THERIA LT, I discussed the following subjects with CNEA-5:

1) In view of the fact that THERIAULT's expenses on her recent trip to India have been greater than was anticipated, $1,000 additional funds have or are to be shortly deposited to her bank. This will be done by sterile check. It is to be accounted for under the terms of the original contract.

2) CIFA-5 suggested that take her reports up with me for possible annotation and expansion. Upon examination on 14 May, this appears unfeasible in view of the fact that there are CIA control indicators and RI symbols attached directly to the reports.

3) CNEA-5 surested that pursue with THERTAULT the possibility of developing an interest in Krishna Menon, utilizing a cleared publisher who could request Menon to write a book. This a proach to be based on Menon's acute susceptability to flattery.

4) CNEA-5 suggested that THER LAULT be asked to review the areas of her influence in order to lay the groundwork for an official invitation to visit this country being extended to the Prime Minister in the future. He suggested Sen. George and Chester Bowles as possible points of departure.

5) THERIAULT is to be informed that her reports have been of measurable assistance to the Ambassador and to the U.S. Government vis-a-vis policy planning for India.

6) THERIAULT is to be asked to come to Washington for a day or so in the very near future for further debriefing. This is to be arranged at her convenience.

7) In view of the fact that THERIAULT has been unwitting of the Agency's role in sponsoring her trip, I suggested that I now make her witting in terms of the security involved. It seemed advisable to me since it is likely that there will be future contacts with TORIAULT. ONEA-5 agreed to this.

8) THER LAULT is to be advised that she is at liberty to discuss any and all aspects of her trip with anybody with the e: ception of the Agency's role in sponsoring it.

Removed from Project PAFLIPPER
Classification: NONE

Removed from Project

14-00000

SECRET

-2

9) In view of the vast amount of work that must be done, I suggested that plan to spend two days - 16 and 17 May - if it becomes necessary. On previous trips to discuss THERIAULT's mission with her, I found that she frequently had other commitments which made it difficult to cover adequately the material which I had amassed. If this is the case on this trip, I should prefer not to press her. One day's latitude seems the better part of wisdom. CNLA-5 agreed. We shall see, however.

10) In the event that it becomes necessary to reach me, I suggest that my wife be asked to get in touch with me, (Jackson 7-7018)) and that I be asked simply to call my office. I will then call on the sterile phone. For the record, my telephone number in New York is CELHAM 82530

 Bertram Cooper

03

SECRET

Removed from Project PAFLIPPER
Classification: NONE
JUL 066-668/59
4-00000.

7.

General Commente.
dupliata
I have no: talked with any Ford Foundation people and many TOM people. An pressed by their quality. They are workin hard and are doing it in a self-effacing mannr. I have not heard one criticien of ta from anybody. There are a few inde, of cour I have not yet net tha. They are here to help India carry out her projccts and her ideas" na one put it. And they seem to be not only democratically but with a very real wareth and sympathy yet they stay quietly in the background and take nons of the credit. But I fool more trongly each week I am here that the work is solid and is having memendously good affoct in relieving tension and hostility between the two countrie. The resulte of the notual work are apparent now and hope has recently increased among Indians, also their self-confidence. When confidence increntes, sensitiveness decrerses, of course.

2.  Froa ail I have picked up, the feeling de widespread that Ambassador Allen did a good job out here. As one put 18, the was exactly right for the period he was here, just as Roules was right for the speciel maxim problems of his two years." Both Indian and Americans highly raise both nem.

3. We have a prize in Evelyn Hersey and somebody should thank TOM every night that she is here. She and Drend Irvine are the wetloved Americans in north India, certainly. Evelyn Hersey i known throughout India. She was Social welfare nttrahe at the breay beginning I think in 1943. The only cao attached to any enbessy anywhere, I understand. Her work w to interpret the social changes taking place in India, to besone aware of the needs and probiens and how these needs nad probis were being met, and to offer her services and her experiense whenever or wherever it was asked for. When the administratica changed, she was die nieced by Republican on the grounds that this uns a new idea, nobody else had ever done such a thing, that 13 no other foreign service and so why should the U.S. AL HF. Allens urgent insistense, she was sent back, this time ME the moglo of TCM- She is, however, doing the same job. Her infilenge is very wide; she is aduired and loved by literally thousands of Indians from the high echolons down to the owe era and ther horijans. She is called on for advice in fields and by very high officials. Sho works behind the scm and feels that her work would be ruined were she given credit for what she hos actually done. she is vivid and full of lif and one would hardly all her self effacing, and yet her work ds done almost Anonymously. I have been around her enough to see how wido her circle of Indian friends is; and how comatently and contimmoly they stream through her house. sho go all ove Indie. Has travelled much more than 100 thougand miles. She say in reocat months she hos felt absolutely no antagonica toward her a American. She is shrewd, hes sherp eyce and care, knowlatlo politically is nobody's food, is strongly ant communist, is waraherted and intellectually a exible. One of the best sinds I have run into since coning ow.

4. I wish we had five times the peo-le in TOM. They carefully void politics. I think it is vise. And they o.. Young

14-00000

8.
5.
6.
Genera. Jomments. (continued.)

AH (NODES
A very good project has recently bee: Launched. It is criled The Delhi fraining and Orientation contro for Foreign Technici: ne in India. This is the second time it hne been held, I think. It begins today, Jan. 24. Contimes for two weeks. (The first one worked out a fine short bibliography on India, and a little brochure on "Foods available in North India.) This second course covers the Indian village, with visits out to villages, Indian art, prchitecture, dance; Indian history, religion, Islam in India, other religions and philosophies; Indian family life and customs, health problems and resuroca, educational problems, urben problems, Rural unemployment and aid, the role of foreign aid in India, discussion of the Five year Plan.

It is the kind of briefing that every foreigner coming to Indid, shound have. It is open to all of then we were invited simply es queste and shall attend many of the meetings. Pilas are shown; trips to art galleries and museums eto. Miss Hersey has had much to do with this; also Dr. Douglas Esninger. And probably others, too. Indians will do most of the briefing.

I shall write later about the Five Year Plan. Am still studying it. Shall have a number of interviowa with the plannere, or with a few of then. shall also go out on several of the projects. This seems important to ne for social changes, and how they are made broci politics. The political picture oan cert-inly not be understood if the cultural and social pictures are not studied and analysed carefully.

We are enclosing e fea excerpte of specahes made by Mr. Nehru, ur. Menon, and Ir. Uhuber this poet wook at the Congress Party big gathering.

14-00000

Odds and Ends of Information,
(050)
AHINODA
1.
Hy Piol told me that the Communists are organising the domestic corkers of New Delhi. Lest weck there was a conring of oyala at India Onte called together for this The week bef ro the bearers (cr the sweepere) were called together. The Comunists are going about it in chrond way making very reasonable demande, such as a half day off ech week, a rise of perhaps 4 or & rupees a sonth in wages. A Communist in every home will really be something

He'ye there is little eativity of Congress party of Socialist party among lstor groupe. The work is being done by Coafurists. They, somehow, have the money to do thes organisational work while there is little money among regular corkers due to weakness of industry, anall member and low Fag of the workere, He is troubled over lack of activity among the desperrtic groups in inbor circles. Says he has been here only 3 months and cannnot da yet see the picture clearly.

2. The State Dept.'s coldness about permitting to visit the Firmen in China give the U. S. a very bad press out here. It was very clover strategy on the part of China; it une bed strategy on our part to appear callous to the feelings of families. Family affection runs deep out here. It is another one of our many small blunders which conchow loom co large when viewed by the hundreds of millions out here. 18, comehow, everybody could count up to ten before speaking, and thick co how China is going to take it but how the entire area of anda will repot. Those frsilles could have been told quietly en personelly that if they wanted to go they would not be protested by an American passport, they could even have been secretly urged not to gop but the blatant press rolesce. Forgive ay cditorialising, I am sure I am not supposed to do it, it cao 1 very close here to the mind and heart of Asia and cannot halg Being aware of these reactions of the peuple. Anyone who loves the U. S. oonnot help but wish that our spokesman would speak core toftly and more thotfully. A braggart or tally to delicad 17 all human beings. To have strength is fine, to trandich that etrength offenis.

3. The Times of India (Jan, 26) has excellent editorial on the cocialistic society goal as outlined by Nehru and Congress Party leaders. "Does Avadi maris a revolutionary shift in Congress poliμ All that it meant was en acknowlcigaent of the Iaveasingl important role of the public sector in the national cena role that was already defined with greater precision in the industrial policy resolution. There was nothing to indicato cha there would be aky new oneroachment on the sphere reserved to private enterprise, and the fears expressed outside the Ceapas on that score were, therefore, unjustifica. Feithe tes thera any justification ation for the apprehension don that the new chicativa meant a radical departure from the Server 14cal.... what mattered really was not the label that as given the, that the extent to which in actual practice it would help in the production of greater wealth and in its pro emitable distritation... What was significant ... was that it shoul

14-00000

adds and ends of inforant on (cont.)
AHNGOA
have been compelled at this stage to cock a more popular labai for ita Foonsaic and social policies.
If this commitment in to be more than a design to steal the opponentes eicatoral thunder, the Congress Governments at the Centre and in he states have Sanedistely to set about the task of translating the new prinsiples Anto policica. The only way to make the policy of Congress Governments accord with Congress principles in self criticien and yet there I were responsible Congressmen at Avadi who saw danger even in the condemnation of malpractices by Congressan,

The road to full employment -- for which the Congres Rea for the first ting laid down a time-limit... is by no means casy. It demands a complete renovation of Life in the countryside on the one hand and apecdy industrialisation making the country as salf-sufficient ne possible on the other.

Digest of
chankhis speech on Jan, 24th.

He spoke of the unsuitability of totalitarianion in the decoratio Republic of India and the indoquncy of ca italien, stating that there was left only a Socialistic approach open to the country.

He states that the acceptance of the Socialistic society na 140sl meant the nationalisation of institutions that could be immediately nationalised with advantage. The presution in so doing bald Ur. Deshmakh, was that socialised production would be c profitable. Ho, however, cautioned that if experience balied that view, the stop might have to be retracca.

De stated that a Socialistic ideal which received the support of the people could achieve the two objectives of incressing national income and enhancing individual divided.

He otated that Indie had established economic stability though at a rather low lovel of prosperity during the first Plan period. He said the credit for the achieve ocacant vent at Marely to ceonomie Caraocaent and planning but inside other facia Padıla among the acciotence from friendly nations. The United States, he said, had contributed the largest share of foreign (11.

Removed from Project CS Classification
NONE
JOB 066-668714

Miss Sandi and Ir. Hoden (private scercetary of ura. Gandhi'e and reception claris at Prime Minister's House) over a cay cup of tea in their quarters told the following story,

While in China, at first big banquet given then, ir. Jerm and his daughter (and others) were served tiny baby live ice capped in honey. Ure. Gandhi (his daughter) was so chockci that cho chodcead at the sight and turned away. Eene of thea could eat the delicacy. It was not ever carved again to then while they were in China.
