104-10215-10126 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Information on Vehicle Consigned to Soviet Natioml

G&Musulin/om 2268 Case 51,605
DCS/Operational Support Staff 19 August 1968
900 Key Bldg.

DO/DCSL Attached in furtherence to
80D/Maritime previous communication sent you on
Mike Evans subject is copy of Bill of Lading
1 E 4846 Hq. and Dock Receipt, which correlates
to this case.

MOORE M-CORMACK LINFS. INCORPORATED
American Republics Line American Scantic Line Robin Line
CAR NUMBER: REFERENC
DELIVERING CARRIER
FORWARDING AGENT SHIPPER'S REFERENCES ENG 232- E-32676 CBC FMC NO EXPORT DEC. NO.
LUICI SERRA, INC. 21 WEST S New 282
BILL OF LADING 
SHIPPER LUTGI SERRA INC., 21 WEST STREET, NEW YORK, NY AS AGENTS
CONSIGNED TO DE LA EMBAJADA DE U.R.I
ORDER OF IVAN GABROLOVICH ALFERJEV SECUNDO SECRETARIO BUENOS AIRES ARGENTINA
ADDRESS ARRIVAL NOTICE TO (without liability Clause 9)
SAME AS L NONE
PORT OF DISCHARIDE USA FLAG PIER PORT OF LOADING
BUENOS AIRES FT-23 STREET BKLYN
DESTINATION Transshipmenti
MARKS AND NUMBERS NO. OF PKGS. PARTICULARS FURNISHED BY SHIPPER OPGOODS ERANTOY GROSS WEIGHT
KLOS
IVAN GAPRILOVICH ALFERIEV 1 SHIPPERS DESCRIPTION OF PACKAGES AND GOODS NEW YORK
SECUNDO SECRETARTO DE LA FREICHT COLLECT COPY POUNDS
EMBAJADA DE LA U.R.S.S NON-NEGOTIABLE
BUENOS AIRES
XC089 UNBOXED: CHEVROLET CHEVELLE 1968 1596 4620kg 3518 #
S#1363961125849 4558
FOR ARGENTINE CUSTOLES QULY
LUIGI SERRA ING
FREICHT COLLECT ARGENTINA
FREIGHT CHARGES MUST BE PAID PRIOR TO ARRIVAL OF
VESSEL AT PORT OF DISCHARGE OTHERWISE CARGO WILL BE
DISCHARGED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARGENTING LAWS AYL
THE ACCOUNT AND EXBENSE OF THE coasos.
Supplier GENERAL MOTORS CORP.
FREIGHT TO BEE IN ARSENTINA KARGENTINA Notice: All rates apply from ships tackle at port of leading
FEEL FREIGHT CHARGES
TYPE TYPEATYRE RATE ORKGE CAREDCOMMODITY NO CELL PORT COL
tackle at port of discharge, unless otherwisete

462.458 52 7320140 2
Freight to be Freight to be
COLLECTED S 52553 PREFAID S Is antress whereof, the Carrier by its Avent has signed THREE (3) BILLS OF LADING, all of
De tame tenor and date one ofco accomplished the others to stand void
MOORE-MCCORMACK LINES, Incorporated goods or packages acid
RECEIVED from the shipper herein named, the goods or pac
to contain goods mentioned herein. In appo apparent good order and condi
fion unless (Terms of this Bill of Lading Continued
Hereaf
FOR THE WASTED DAY DATED AT NEW YORK B/L NO

DELIVERING O
CARRIER
PLEASE DELIVER THE MOTOR VEHICLEL
DESCRIDID BELOW:
NOW AT
BUFFALO, KEW YORK
EXPORT
DELIVER
LICENSE NO.
LOAD NO. 11/1
CTI ORT
OFC. NO.
THE NO. XCO NO MODEL DESCRIPTION DOCK CODE
UNITY
1672 12187971 citro-13639-SEDAN. RECEIPT 35120461-
ATECHIED
Sint 81125849 468.535

P/C-LUIGI SERRA INC.:
TO BE REMARKED SIGHED DOCK RECEPT
must be returned
JAREDIATELY
to undersigned
IN BOND
WHEEL, BRENCH D/L DESTINATION MARKS
INSIDE MIKROR IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERIEU
EXTRA WHEELS & TIRES SEGUNDO SECRETARIO DELA..
RADIO & ANTENNA EMBAJADA DE U.R.S.S
SEALED CARTONS BUENOS AIRES - ARGENTINA
OF PARTS
HEATERS & DEFROSTERS GENERAL MOTORS OVERSEAS OPERATION
JACK & JACK BASE DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
PINT CAN OF PAINT BY W. TRAINOR
2 ASH TRAYS
W/S WIPER AUG 17 1968
2.
ARMS A BLACES
RADIO.FUSE

within merchandise for shipments indicated hereon subjon yo
undersigned's usual form of dock receipt eipt or by of lading..
DOCK RECEIPT Carrier- Date
QUADRUPLICATE
NON-NEGOTIABLE Receiving Clerk subigen to all conditions

Нооге Не Cormack Lines

GSMusulin/ba 2268 Case 51,605
DCS/Operational Support Staff 16 August1968
900 Key Bld

DO/DCSIL Copy of NYOR 0225 is for your
SOD/Maritime information and records.
Mike Evans Additional information will be
forwarded when received. Please
let me know if there is
something further we can do.

Process Shut typed.
in CSS. 19 cung (68
CO. ACS) 29007-68.

SECRET
SECRET 161544Z A11G 68 CITE CONTACTS/NEW YORK P225

PRIOPITY CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

OPERATIONAL DIVISION (MUSULIN) FROM BROOKS
INTEL REPORT: 00A(S) 322-29007-68
CONTACT, AND SOURCE: MR. BUSER
VP, SOUTH AMERICAN OPNS
MOORE MCCORMACK LINES
NEW YORK CITY

SOURCE: SAME

FILED: 16 AU3 1968

FIELD REMARKS: COPIES OF THE DOCK RECEIP? AND BILL OF LADING ARE
BEING FORVARDED UNDER COVER OF A PROCESS SHEET.

GSMusulin/ba
SECRET
2268 80933
ROUTINE
15 AUG 68 1100
CONTACTS HEW YORK
FROM OSS (MUSULIN)
NEM CASE 51,605 REQUEST TO IDENTIFY VEHICLE CONSIGEND TO SOVLET DMBASSY,
BUENOS AIRES
ARGENTINA

THIS IS NEW CASE OPENED TO YOUR OFFICE
BOD/MARITIME REQUESTS INFORMATION ON MAKE AND MODEL OF CAR

CONSIGNED 20 IVAN GAVRILOVICH ALFERYEZ AND REPORTEDLY DESTINED TO SOVIET
EMBASSY, BUENOS AIRES, APOENTIHA CAR WAS PLACED ABOARD 8S NORMACPRIDE, HOORE
MC CORMACK LINES, MERCHANTMAN, 4 AUGUST 1968, DUE TO ARRIVE BUENOS AIRES,
18 AUGUST 1968. SHIPPING RECORDS SHOULD PROVIDE THE DESIRED IDENTIFICATION
AND OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION PLEASE EXPEDITE REPLY ASAP

SECRET

SECRET
COUNTRY: USSR/ARGENTINA/USA
CASE 51605 RE WASHINGTON 22933
DATE OF INFO 16 AU3 68
SUBJECT: INFORMATION ON VEHICLE CONSIGNED TO SOVIET NATIONAL

PLACE AND DATE ACQUIRED: ---/16 AUGUST 1968
THIS IS NEW YORK REPORT OOA(S) 2405468
SOURCE DESCRIPTION: NONE

THE VEHICLE SHIPPED ABOARD THE MORMACPRIDE ON 4 AUGUST AND
CONSIGNED TO IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERIEV IS MANIFESTED AS A 1968-
CHEVELLE SEDAN, SERIAL 1363981129849 PPT 1363981125849. ALFERIEV
IS REFLECTED AS THE SECOND SECRETARY OF THE USSR EMBASSY, BUENOS
AIRES. A SECOND IDENTIFYING SERIAL NUMBER SHOWN ON THE BILL OF
LADING IS XCO-189491. THE VEHICLE WAS CONSIGNED BY LUIGI SERRA INC,
21 VEST ST, NYC AS AGENTS FOR THE USSR EMBASSY, BUENOS AIRES.
2. THERE IS NO INFORMATION RECORDED SHOWING THE COLOR OF THE
AUTOMOBILE OP WHETHER IT IS TVO OR FOUR DOORS. THE VEHICLE IS STOVED
IN NUMBER FOUR UPPER TWEEN DECK VING AND IS ONE OF FOURTEEN
ASSEMBLED VEHICLES TO BE OFFLOADED AT BA. THERE IS AT LEAST
ONE OTHER 1958 CHEVELLE ABOARD.
3. THE MORMACPRIDE IS SKED INTO BA ON 18 AUS, BUT HER PORT
POSITION IS NOT YET KNOWN. IT IS CONCEIVABLE THAT SHE VILL BE
ASSIGNED A BERTH ON THE 18TH AND THAT CARGO VILL BE WORKED
INMEDIATELY, DESPITE THE FACT THAT IT IS A SUNDAY. IF THIS IS THE
CASE, THE VEHICLES IN THE TWEEN DECKS SPACES WILL BE THE FIRST
CARGO OFF-LOADED.

-END-
SECRET
