14-00000
104-10250-10199
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO : Deputy Chief, SSD 22 June 1954

FROM : Chief, Special Referral Branch

SUBJECT: HIDALGO, Balmes, Jr.
#65077

SYNOPSIS

The Subject is a covert employee of this Agency now in the 
United States for four weeks training and being considered for 
use by Staff C/ICB in a highly sensitive assignment. Immigration 
authorities may submit questions through this Agency which will 
be answered by the Subject, but reçuests to have the Subject tes- 
tify in open court hearings must be refused.

DETAILS

1. Reference is made to the letter received by the Alien 
Affairs Staff from the Immigration and Naturalization Service 
and reference to your request of 15 June 1954 to ascertain the 
details of the Subject's status with this Agency and prepare a 
reply to INS.

2. On 17 June 1954 Special Agent Chester R. HODGSON of this 
office interviewed Mr. Robert DAHLGREN, Acting Chief, WH/FT, Room 
1128 "T" Building, and Mr. John BONNET) Chief, WH/Panama, Room 
220 "Quarters "J", Bldg 156, regarding the Immigration request. The 
following information was obtained during this interview.

a. The Subject is still a covert employee of this Agency, 
is now in the United States (New York City) on home leave, and 
is scheduled to report to Washington, D.C., to commence four 
weeks of covert trainingon 6 July 1954.

b. The Subject is presently under consideration by Staff 
C/ICB for an assignment with a highly sensitive project under 
the supervision of Staff C/ICB. Under this proposed assign- 
ment any publicity or notoriety that the Subject would receive 
from testifying publicly on questions of Communist associations 
of which he may have knowledge would ultimately preclude his 
future use with the Staff C project and would probably jeopar- 
dize his future as a covert employee of this Agency.

c. If the Staff Cassignment tdoes not materialize, the 
Subject will return to Calboa Cabrera Canal Zone on approxi- 
mately 15 August 1954 as a case officer, and this position 
would also be jeopardized by undue publicity.

14-00000

GIRU

3. Mr. DALOREN and Mr. BONNET indicated that from a WH 
standpoint orly there would be no objection to a controlled inter- 
view with the Subject if the interview could be afforded the Sub- 
ject while he is still in New York City. This, however, would 
have to be coordinated with State Department for possible obiections 
that they might raise in view of their proposed use of the Sub- 
ject. Mr. DAHLGREN requested that he be informed of any action 
taken in this matter and any rublic testimony or open court tes- 
timony would have to derend on the seriousness of the case being 
prepared by the Immigratior authorities.

4. Ary contact with the Subject during his period of covert 
training from 6 July to approximately 15 August 1954 would have to 
also be cominated with Mr. Peter HOWEL, Covert Training Officer, 
OTE, whose office is located in Building -31.

5. In June 1951 Special Agent HODGSON cortacted Mr. Paul BIRKE,
Staff C/ICB, 1613 "I" Building, x668, to discuss the Sub-
ject's future position and also the request received from INS.
The following factors were obtained from Mr. BIRKE

a. The Subject's use in the proposed Staff C project is 
still in the plarning stage, but the assignment that the Sub- 
ject is being considered for is a highly sensitive one and 
any further publicity which the Subject may receive would 
ultimately disqualify him for consideration on this project.

b. Any approval for INS contact of the Subject would 
have to be determined after carefully considering the impor- 
tance of the INS case for which the Subject's testimony may 
be recuired. Mr. BIRKE indicated that the Subject could still 
be considered as an employee of Division regardless of whe- 
ther or not the proposed Staff C/ICB assignment materializes 
and any action in the request received from INS should be 
closely coordineted with both Staff C and WH.

6. Mr. PENNINGTON, Alien Affairs Staff, SO, contacted William 
A. HOGAN, Special Assistant to the Commissioner of Immigration and 
Naturalization on 18 June 1954 requesting further information re- 
garding their memorandum of 9 June 1954 on the Subject. Mr. HOGAN 
explained that INS has a list of possible informants which contains 
the Subject's name. The people on this list are being contacted for 
use on a continuing basis wher specific cases arise which might 
fall in their particular area of knowledge. At the present time, 
INS has no specific case for which they want to contact the Subject, 
but they just want to know if he would be available in the future 
for use as an informant regarding various Communist activities of 
which the Subject has personal knowledge.

2 -

14-00000
7. After his conversation with Mr. HOGAN, Mr. PENNINGTON 
Indicated that a refusel of the INS request would not be con- 
sidered out of order, but recommended cooperating to the extent 
that could submit specific questions to this Agency which 
could be presented to the Subject and the answer forwarded to 
INS. The refusel of their original request should be based on 
the sensitivity of the Subject's position which could be jeopar- 
dized by undue publicity and also on the fact that the Sub- 
ject is frequently and it would be difficult to locate him 
and contact him.

8. Dr. James STROUGH, Alien Affairs Staff/SC, stated on 18 
June 1951 that Mr. HOGAN, Special Assistant to the Commissioner 
of Immigration and Naturalization, had indicated in a conversation 
with Dr. STROUGH on 8 June 195L that INS had been able to locate 
the Subject's location and affiliation with this Agency through 
the Subject's father who told the inspector that the Subject was 
employed this Agency in Balboa, Panama, Canal Zone, which appears 
to be a security flap on the part of the Subject's father.

9. Mr. John BONNET Chief, WH/Panama, was recontacted on 18 
June and informed of the nature of the INS request and also 
notice of the apparent security flap on the part of the Subject's 
father. On the basis of this further information, it was suggested 
to Mr. POWELL that the TANS authorities be requested to submit any 
cuestions through this Agency which would, in turn, be presented to 
the Subject and his answers be returned to INS. Mr. BONNET agreed 
to the proposal of having the TOWS people contact the Subject 
through this Agency and also indicated that the reported security 
breach on the part of the Subject's father would be taken into 
consideration and an attempt would be made to determine the extent 
of the Subject's relatives or acquaintances know of the Subject's 
employment by this Agency. Mrs Paul BIRKE, Staff C/ICB, also 
agreed to the proposed procedure and requested that any and all 
action taken be coordinated with WH and Staff C.

ACTION

It is recommended that the attached memorandum to IANS and to 
the Chief, WH Division, with a carbon copy to Staff C/ICE, be for- 
warded and that no further action betaken pending a report from Mr. 
BONNET Yegarding the seriousness of the security flap from an oper- 
ational standpoint.

Charles W. Fane

Attachments
1 - Letter to INS
1 - Letter to WH with cc to Staff C/ICB
HODGSON/CMT
6/23/51

GIN
3
