14-00000

104-10215-10099 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: CABLE
ACTION SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession No. 48405
Date Received SA

| TO      | ROOM NO. | DATE                               | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                                                                  |
| :------ | :------- | :--------------------------------- | :----------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. WH/3 | 11.3.  | Received 11.3.87 Forwarded    | KDB MCG             | Veibel approval from Me Oden, 1/04 11 Sept. 1957- Written requech fos Of amendment submitted to 21/04 |
| 2.       |          | MAC Aviky 16.387                   |                    | same date                                                                                               |
| 3. WA/CUBA |       | whathlatte sead theis                  |                    |                                                                                                           |
| 4. WHBB       |          |                  |                    |                                                                                                           |
| 5.       |          |                                    |                    |                                                                                                           |
| 6.       |          |                                    |                    |                                                                                                           |
| 7.       |          |                                    |                    |                                                                                                           |
| 8.       |          |                                    |                    |                                                                                                           |
| 9.       |          |                                    |                    |                                                                                                           |
| 10. Cable desk |       |                                    |                    | Paul: Please draft cable to station and coordinate with Dick Rastetter :                              |

Each comment should be numberd "Hqs, has no objection use subject to contact Amourette
A line should be drawn across she
Officer designations should be use
Each officer should initial (check:
Action desired or action taken sho
Routing sheet should always be re
For officer designations see separa
B. Due-presert-oftuation-Amourette-A-suggest-station
use or discretion-in-contacting-Amourette-10-if.
such is felt necessary to maintain-latter's-interest.
Suggest contacts be kept minimum during cooling off
period until replacement arrives.
nachstetter edited above ист
12

SECRET

201-167881

14-00000
118

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

DATE 116 BD/MK/EM
10 SEPT 1957
SE-C-R-E-T

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM : HAVANA

ACTION: WH 5

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI/RI 2 PP 2, PP/OPS, S/C 2

VAIVADA DE RG.

Cop-10-18 1957
DECID CABLE CEL

ROUTINE

IN 48465

TO DIR INFO CITE HAVA Ø16
RE: HAVA Ø14 (IN 48222)*

RE PARA 3 REF REQUEST APPROVAL USE ARTHUR G. VAIVADA

AS CONTACT AMOURETTE B, AMOURETTE 10 IF NECESSARY, AND OTHER

KUCAGE ASSETS AT STATION DISCRETION PENDING REPLACEMENT

GALLEGOS. WOULD NOT INTERFERE WITH HIS KUTUBE DUTIES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: STATION COULD PROVIDE CONTACT FOR AMOURETTE-B AND POSSIBLY A ON
INTERIM BASIS.

CS COPY

SECRET

ABSTRACT INDEX

PATE SEPT 57

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
201-168881

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Specely Aur 3) DISPATCH NO HKI-M-2362
201-32723

CLASSIFICATION

TO Chief of Station, Habana 29 J0L-57 09 12

FROM Chief, WHD

SUBJECT GENERAL
Operational SPECIFIC
Arthur G. VAIVADA
Referensst HKI-M-2268, 22 Nay 1957

Action Resalrndt For Subject's Information

Endfoot's contract dated 1 August 1954 was recently amended to read
as follows:

"Effective 14 May 1957, a contuest, as is
Further asended by deleting in its entirsty Paragrah 1 (b)
and substituting in lien thereof the fofLoring:

1 (b) Additional compensation calculated
at the rate of 85,195 par φνου.
All other terms and conditioce do the original contrast,
as amended, resain in full force and effect."

08
t
15:431
17 July 1957

Distribution:
3 - Habana
1 - RI
1-WH/III/Cuba/Chrono
1-WH/Mailroom
1 Subject

LIP J. C. KING, C/AND
for
(Releasing office)

J. C. KING
Chief, WHD

WH/III/Cuba/HCMacAuley/is

60.1
(Coordinating officer)

SECRET
MASSFICATION

R
R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
(Authenticating officer)

FORM NO. 51-29
JUN 1949 201-168881

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air Pouch
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH DISPATCH NO TRS-A-347
CLASSIFICATION
DATE: 20 May 1949
TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T

FROM : Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GENERAL OPERATIONS

SPECIFIC. Request for Project Authorization

REFERENCE: TZP-W-411

1. Authorization is hereby requested for the project described

below, which we plan to initiate on 1 June 1949. In view of
the comment contained in paragraph 2 of referenced communi-
cation, we are assuming that commencement of this project on
a simple exploratory basis has already been approved by head-
quarters. No further commitments, other than those descriced
below, will be made.

4. Objectives

INDEX (1) Cutout services, as suggested by headquarters,
in an effort to test Subject's abilities.

APR 1947 ST-26 (2) As a basic and continuing assignment to permit
and enccurage development of Subject's best
local contacts as well as in the hope of filling
a long-felt need in cur operational pattern, he
will be assigned to the general topic of labor;
specifically, communist penetration of local
non-communist labor groups and theoretical
developments which are of interest regardless
of group designation.

(3) Subject appears to be genuinely interested and
to possess an unusual appreciation for cperational
ways and means, which is seldom encountered.
For this reason, none of his assignments will
be exclusive, and he will be encouraged to follow
up such leads and opportunities as arise in the
course of his daily occupations regardless of
any objective and target assignments.
わわ

TEAPOTTLED
CLASSIFICATION
DESENSITIZED
2 may 114943-25
201-168881

14-00000

APOR TRS-A-347-
CROITIZED Page 2

B. Targets:

: (1) Subject will commence by serving as cutout for
Hurger, who has always held out great promise but
never been properly developed or directed.

(2) In the labor field, the principal and only target
at the moment is the only labor federation, the
Rerum Kovarum.

(3) Subject will represent our only contact among the
student groups and certain allied "intellectual"
societies. Any activity in this category showing
promise may subsequently become an assigned target.

C. Cryptonym and Essential Data on Personnel

The designation "Hydropathic", heretofore applied to
subject individual, is hereby discarded. He will
hereafter be designated by San Jose Station Symbol
No. 26. For essential data on personnel, see TZP-A-365,
Part I and II.

D. Control and Contact

Judging by Subject's background data and his already
demonstrated cooperative attitude, we do not feel that
control and direction of his activities will be any
problem. Contact, owing to the nature of this project,
will be frequent and carried out in any convenient
manner, generally in one or the other of our respective
homes.

E. Cover

Subject had planned to and has established himself in
Costa Rica for entirely personal reasons, prior to any
contact with this office. He has a Costa Rican wife,
attends the university, and lives a perfectly normal
life which any assignments from us will net disrupt.
Our only anticipated problem is that of mutine contacts
between Subject and the Chief of Station. That matter
will be handled with care and discretion.

F. Cost

DESENSITIZED

For CC 13-23
Subject has agreed to serve for a salary equivalent to
$50.00 per month, to be paid in colones. To offset
this expense we plan to dispense with the services of
Hucklebone who is presently receiving $400.00 per month.
i

14-00000
1
DESENSITIZED TRS-A-347
Page 3

G. Timing and other Factors

Our preliminary interviews with Subject lead us to
believe that he will be the interested and relia ble
American cutout for which this station has long felt
a need. His greatest virtue in this respect appears
to be an understanding of operational methods and an
appreciation of relative values with respect to infor-
mation. It is hoped to make this a permanent project,
but our plans and our arrangements with Subject are
considered to be probationary, dependent entirely
upon his development and future usefulness.

Thue Herree
Elmer C. Mercer

SECRET
CIKAPOKZED DESENSITIZED
14-00000
:
:
VIA: ATR POUCH
TZPA 365/01
OFFICIAL DISPATCH
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH
CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO TZP-A-365 
FROM : Chief of Station, Panama City, Parara, DATE: November 1948
SUBJECT: GENERAL
Operations.
SPECIFIC- Operational bata INTROFATHIC PART TI

1. The subject of TZP-A-365 Part I is HIDROPATHIC.

2. Subject is best qualified to serve as a cutout in hardling informants. He
has had experience along these lines in cultivating and collecting inforna-
tion from the following individuals:

Covernment Oppositionists:
:
:
Lr. José PEZLY!
Lic. Angelli Lender
Eng. Luis AD CENZ
Prof. Luis AS

Government Supporters:
:
Lic. Demetrio ARTTIEL
Lic. Alberto VANSALLO
Lic. GenerosoPSL.CS
:
As a result of the recent meeting between Elmer C. LERCER and Grover J.
WARIKO, Subject has been recruited for the specific task of acting as a
cutout in handling HYDE CCYST I, who can be handled more profitabl if
trasferred to the control of CEP's station. Subject to Home Office
approval, no definite commitments have been rade in this case.

3. Subject has a working knowledge of the following subjects:
a. Protocol
b. Liaison acthods pertaining to intelligence in
Latin American countries and inter-departmental
liaison within our own government.
c. Cornurications systems. Subject transmits and
receives about 12 - 16 words per minute in Lorse
code.
Ande
d. The political structure of Latin American governments.
SECCI

FORM NO. 51-20
APR 1947
CLASSIFICATION 201-168881

14-00000

TOP-365-Part-11

e. Subversive potential and leading subversive personali-
ties of most Latin American countries.
f. Subject is trained in the use of Srearts, jungle war-
fare, and has studied and worked with mars and charts,
and is acquainted with surveilance and evasion pro-
cedures.
g. His primary activity after his arrival in the new area
ray of itself be useful. over, it is doubtful if
this man will be able to devote any large portion of
his tize to our work until such time as he is thoroughly
oriented.

4. Subject is best qualified to procure information in Latin American coun-
tries, particularly Panama and Costa Rica.
LAVIER OF CETATICH

5. After he has established hirself, Subject is interested in traveling in
Argentina, Chile and brazil.

6. He is willing to travel for us and subject to Home Office approval, it is
planned to introduce HYDROPATHIC to HIDROCYS? who will, in turn, introduce
HYDROPATHIC to HIDEOUEST I and, if approved, to HYDROCEST II. For the sake
of cover, this is to be done on the basis that HYDACCYST and HYCΗΟΡΑΤΕΙΟ are
lodge brothers. HIEROPATHIC will join that organization in order to build
up the cover. (Paragraph 3, TZF-2-565 Part I).

7. The number of people that will work for Subject is undetermined. Tenta-
tively we have in mind HILOCYST I and FILECOIST II and, if he recruits
then, the subjects underlined in red in Paragraph 15 of TZP-A-365 Fart I.
It might be well to start collecting biograrhic data on the latter three
individuals at this time.

8. Subject is employed by another agency, but that employment will be terminated
in the near future.

9. Subject has been recruited on an Embassy Intelligence Officer basis. It is
possible that he knows the ultimate destination of any information he may
submit.

10. As presently planned, HYDROCYST and FYEPOPATHIC will be acquainted with each
other. The turnover could be effected without these agents meeting, but
then it would be more difficult to build up the lodge cover story. It would
even be possible for HYDROPATHIC to communicate with RCCYST since toth
have a knowledge of Horse Coce. However, it is believed that future infor-
cation from HYLACCES? I will not have its primary value in this area.

11. Subject will be briefed to communicate by letter-drop. Here again, a lodge
connection night be used as this is the present system which HIDROCYST I
employs in forwarding communications to HYLEOCYST.
فه

12. Subject will be briefed to report in writing and to require his sub-agents
to do so wherever possible.
SECRET KITIZED

14-00000

P-A-765 Part II

13. Subject cannot be expected to devote any major portion of his time to
our work: until he has built up his cover and is oriented in his new
surroundings. Athough Auent in the lanmuare, he will probably en-
counter a good deal of new terminolog.

14. Subject has entered into a tentative oral contract to perform services
for us for a salary of $50.00 per month. This can be rade into a written
contract at any tire.

15. Subject's tentative continuing project is outlined in paragraph 2 above.

16. Subject should be capable of initiating his om projects.
PAYEENT

17. Starting in February 1949, it will be necessary to pay subject $50.00 11.S.
dollars per ronth as indicated in paragraph 14 above.

18. Subject has been told that if his services prove satisfactory, he can ex-
pect an increase in salary. No specific amount was discussed.

19. It is contemplated that this station may be required to pay certain travel
expenses for Subject. If done, this will be charged against Project
Development.

20. No cost of purchase of information is involved at this time.

21. Subject's superiors regard this ran as highly dependable. He has had con-
siderable experience in writing reports and has remarked that his two
principal criticisms of intelligence reporting as he has observed it in
this area is that the reporting is inclined to be sensational rather than
factual and that cost people have nothing to report other than that which
the opposition is willing that they receive. He should have a fair con-.
cept of security. However, general security in this area is very lax and
he ray have subconscious bad habits.

22. In view of his background, Subject should only be good in semi-covert work.

23. If this man is kept under cover he wight eventually effect a penetration of
scholastic or parlor-pink circles. It is presumed that this would be on
a low level.

24. This individual could easily be recruited for a full-time job with our organi-
zation. Forever, it is believed that core is to be gained by starting him
off in this manner, perhaps giving hin periodic schooling and gradually in-
creasing his activities and responsibilities.

ES COPY Chover Woring
CS Grover Jaring
Distribution: Hash2
Sanj - 1 SECRET
Files-1 201-168881

14-00000

aissier TO FILE WO
CLASSIPO MESSAGE
TOTAL CC 18
84 SECRET

MEXICO CITY CD
ACTION C/WHEBRID COPY

PLOTTEO
BE-POGOUCTION
HIBITED

FILE VR, DET, NISI, OCI/ILIN) DIP. AN EX-DIS, CS/OC, CSIRF, CICAZ, CICI,
C/FJ2, C/CPSER, CIDOY, C100/13

SECRET 2919332
IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEΧΙ 4385
*In the station's judgement, neither GOM nor VLT
will wish to push this further.
RYBAT 29 SEP 65 62264
REF MEXI 4865 (IN 61382)

1. NIGHT 28 SEPTEMBER LIFTER-3 SAID VLT CALLED MEETING NATIONAL
DIRECTORATE SEPT 21, AT WHICH LIMOLD-1 PRESENT, AND TOLD GROUP
PLANNED CALL PRESS CONFERENCE SEPT 23 TO MAKE EXPOSURE RE ODYOKE
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES MEXΙ.

2. SEPT 25 VLT SPOKE BRIEFLY TO NUMBER OFFICIALS AT YOM ABOUT
PRESS RELEASE AND SAID THAT TO GAIN MAXIMUM IMPACT HE ADDED
CHARGE THAT L-i AND RACIEL HERNANDEZ WERE THREATENED. ON
QUESTIONING BY L-8, VLT SAID NO NEW ATTEMPTS MADE AGAINST
POS PEOPLE BUT BELIEVES SOME ODYOKE AGENCY HAS POSSIBLY ONE MENBER
NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OR PROBABLY ONE CENTRAL COMMITTEE MEMBER.
WORKING FOR IT, BUT ADDED THIS TYPE OF THING DIFFICULT UNCOVER AND
PROVE.

3. L-8 HAS TALKED TO ADRIANA SEVERAL TIMES SINCE EXPOSURE AND
SHE SAYS PPS HAS NO PROOF OF CHARGES, AND NO EVIDENCE, DOCUMENTARY
OR OTHERWISE, WHICH NOT PUBLISHED IN PRESS. THERE STILL NO
EVIDENCE L-1 HAS REPORTED MOST PECENT APPROACH, AND NO EVIDENCE
SECRET
Fidei
Kombarde T
201
201-161881

14-00000
IN 62264
HEPRANDEZ HAS PEPORTED MORE THAN FIRST MEETING AND FIRST
TELEPHONE CALL TO PPS.
PHEE 2

4. L-8 HAS TALKED TO HERNANDEZ DEVERAL TIMES SINCE PRESS
RELEASE, AND LATTER ANGRY WITH VLT WHO FAILED CONSULT HIM BEFORE
PRESS CONFERENCE. HERNANDEZ SAID VLT HAD PROMISED MATTER WOULD
BE DROPPED AND NO PUBLICITY WOULD BE GIVEN APPROACH. HERNANDEZ
NOW FEARS ODYCKE AGENCY WHICH APPROACHED KIM VILL HAVE HIM FIRED
FROM HIS TWO JOBS, AND REALIZES PPS IN NO POSITION HELP HIM.

9.. L-8 BELIEVES VLT MADE EXPOSURE THIS TIME IN EFFORT MAXE
SOME FAVORABLE PROPAGANDA AT EXPENSE PBPRIME, KNOWING THAT
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF LATTER HAVE BEEN "EXPOSED" IN NUMBER
PLACES RECENTLY. ALSO, VLT VERY POSSIBLY TRYING OFFSET EXPECTED
ADVERSE CRITICISM AS RESULT CHIHUAHUA INCIDENT 23 SEPT IN WHICH
SOME UGOCM (PPS) PEOPLE INVOLVED. ACCORDING L-8, POS
AND VLT FEEL GOM NOT INTERESTED PPS CHARGES AND WILL NOT SERIOUSLY
INVESTIGATE IF IN FACT ANY EFFORT MADE AT ALL. VLT PLANS SPEECH
IN CONGRESS ON 5 OCT, AND ALTHOUGH ADRIANA SAID SPEECH WILL DEAL
PRIMARILY WITH ECONOMIC MATTERS, L-8 FEELS CERTAIN VLT WILL DISCUSS
ODYOKE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES MEXI.

6. PRESS MORNING 29 SEPT CARRIED ARTICLE ON INTERVIEW LUIS

14-00000

ECHE-YA --
TER OF GOBERNACION HAD -- VP 62264
WITH NUMBER REPORTERS 28 SEPT. ECHEVARRIA SAID VLT GAVE HIM PHEE 3
DECLARATION 25 SEPT REGARDING SUPPOSED ACTS EXPIONAGE AND BRIPERY
INVOLVING TWO OFFICIALS PPS. ECHEVARRIA SAID IN VIEW FACT ONE OF
TVO PERSONS ACCUSED BY PPS IS FOREIGNER (TORELLI), GOBERNACION
HAD INITIATED AN INVESTIGATION, BUT THAT FACTS PRESENTED BY PPS DO
NOT CONSTITUTE EXPIONAGE, SINCE NEITHER PPS OFFICIAL INVOLVED IS
PUBLIC OFFICIAL OR FUNCTIONARY. ADDED THAT IF FACTS CAN BE PROVEN
IT MAY BE THAT THEY COULD BE CHARGED WITH THREATENING PHYSICAL HARM
TO PPS OFFICIALS AND THEIR FAMILIES.

7. BENADUM TALKED TO LITEMPO-1 23 SEPT RE VLT CHARGES.
LITEMPO-1 APPEARED NOT AT ALL CONCERNED, SAID VLT HAS MAKE SOME
KIND OF SPECTULAR CHARGES PERIODICALLY IN ORDER PROVE TO PPS RANK
AND FILE HE HAS NOT JOINED PRI, AND INDICATED GON PLANS DC NOTHING
ABOUT CHARGES. BENADUN PLANS HENTICH TO LITEXPO-4 AT FIRST
OPPORTUNITY
1

9 10 3. LIJERSEY-5 TOLD GERENDE 23 SEPT HE HAD NOT SEEN LIJERSEY-!
SINCE TURN OVER TO CASE OFFICER IN 1957. L-S DOES NOT KNOW LIMOLD-1
10 8 AND BELIEVES LIJERSEY-1, IF QUESTIONED, WOULD DENY ANY INTEL CONNECTIONS
AND NOT REVEAL NAMES OTHER KUSARY PEOPLE THEN KNOWN TO HIM.

14-00000

-8 2

---VIEW ABOVE DO NOT PLAN HAVE L/S SEE L/A
SECRET IN 62264
CF 4385 4865 28 LIFTER-8 VLT 21 LIMOLO-1 23 RE ODYOKE
25 VLT UOM L-I RACIEL HERNANDEZ 4-8 VLT NO NEW PPS ODYOKE L-8
ADRIANA PPS NO PROOF NO EVIDENCE NOT PUBLISHED NO EVIDENCE L-1
NO EVIDENCE HERNANDEZ PPS 1-8 HERNANDEZ VLT HERNANDEZ VLT NO
PUBLICITY HERNANDEZ ODYOKE PPS NO POSITION L-8 VLT VLT CHIHUAHUA
23 UGOCH PPS L-8 PPS VLT GOM NOT INTERESTED PPS 7.
JOT SERIOUSLY VLT 5 OCT ADRIANA L-8 VLT ODYOKE 29 LUIS ECHEVAPRIA
GOBERNACION 28 ECHEVARRIA VLT 25 SEPT FPS ECHEVARRIA PPS TORELLI
GOBERNACION PPS NOT CONSTITUTE PPS PPS BENADUM LITEMPO-1 28 RE
VLT LITEMPC-1 NOT AT VLT PPS NOT JOINED PRI GOM BENADUM LITEMPO-4
LIJERSEY-5 GERENDE 23 NOT SEEN LIJERSEY-1 1957 L-5 NOT KNOW
LIMOLD-I LIJERSEY-1 NOT REVEAL KUPARK NOT PLAN L/5 L/1
B
:

14-00000

INDEZI YESNO

CLASSIFY TO FILC NO.

X-REF TO 1.2 ..
FILE RID -RET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
OL.PL 3/3 SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
FROM

MEXICO Cit

ACTION

☑ RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED

SLOTTED
TUBED
1 2 3 5 7

PLOTTEO
BE-POGOUCTION

HIBITED.

FILE, UR, P./AH, CAZ,CAIPROP, Elops.c1/162 UNIT TIME

L

DIR CITE KEX: 4630

REF A MEXI 4832/IN 59245)

E DIR 36518

I. NOTE ESTATE TELEFON 693 OF 24 SEP INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH

ASSOCIATES YENTIONED IN APPARENT FOLL UP EL DIA ARTICLE REFP

FULL TEXT VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANC PRESS CONFERENCE PEING PONCHIED.

2. INDEX. :
31:

SECRET XRE MORNING PRESS CARRIED PRESS CONFERENCE GIVEN BF

VICENTE LEIBARDOTALF
CF 4350 4350 38513 693 24 SEP REF EVIDENTE 2000 10LEDANO

REING POUCHED.
BT :.

:.

RI
201-168881
File ROW GROZIER
201-16888/

14-00000

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)
STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS
NAME ROLL PAY PERIOO DATE ALLOTMENT STA. NO.
NOFMAYR HAROLD R 15 857575 10/27 - 11/23 13220011000 200

EARNINGS DESCRIPTION
5,44 961.92
REG SALARY
05 1683.76 SL

DEDUCTIONS DESCRIPTION
62.52 RETMT
1778.66 FED TAX 1
1294.72- FED TAX 2
9.27 736HOSP 9
RESIGN. EFF. 11/28/63
HERE WITH PL. THRU. 11/28/63 + 3 76 hrs T/L. & 5.01 PERHR

EMPLOYEE NAME:
NOEMAYR HAROLD R
SECRET
ADDL. COMP. FROM EMPLOYEE
EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE
DATE
MTO.
DATE RO. than Normal Salary

2845.68 555.93 2289.75 2269.75 TOTALS
NET PAY PD. at HDQTS.

FORM 1315 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
11-58
SECRET
201-168881

14-00000
4 October 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT : Teraination of Contract - Ross L.
Crozier 201-169881

1. Attached is the original of Form 1680, Clearance
Sheet for Termination of Contract Personnel, for retent ion
in your file. A copy has been forwarded to the Office of
Security for their records.

2. Also attached is dr. Crozier's letter of resigna-
tion. In accordance with the provision of his contract
providing for a ninety day notice, the resignation becomes
effectivo close of business 28 November 1963.

Attachments: Desmond FitzGerald
Form 1689 Chief, Special Affairs Staff
Letter of Resignation

Distribution: 201-168871
Orig. & 1 Addressee w/att
1 Comp Tax Accts Br
1 CCS
1 Outplacement Branch

14-00000

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT
FOF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

DATE Noemeyer

ESTABLISHED FOR

X TO:
(Check) CHIEF, RECORDS AND SERVICES DIVISION

ATTA
#SAS CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT

REF:
FILE NO.

MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP ESTABLISHED
ID CARD NO.
:
BLOCK RECORDS: ACTION RATE: November 1980
(ОРМЕМО 20-800-11)

a. TEMPORARILY FOR _ DAYS, EFFECTIVE

6. CONTINUING, EFFECTIVE

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY TO 3.
(HB 20-800-2)
..

ASCERTAIN THAT ARMY W-2 BEING ISSUED.
(HB 20-661-1)

SUBMIT FORM 1322 FCR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS COVER.
(R 240-250)

SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER RESPONSIBILITY.
(R240-250)
REMARKS:
sas Ang vaistory: 1933 - 1.JOC,
200 s 57 - NOC, overseerOR:
Day 87 Sept 30 - KOC, COALS: Seρς 10 - Aug
31 - NOC, CONDS; Sept 31 - 62 - NOC, CORD;
Jan 53 - Jul 03 - DAC, Recs.

Subject will use above interaction for back-
stopping and use for commercial use only. Should
no ever have need to apply for a governmental
position, he will contact this office and vill
ignore above information azi use CIA from sex
1953 on.

dg address not known.

COPY TO CPD/OP German
Franklin
CHIEF OILITARY COVER, CCS
GROUP 1
DISTRIBUTION: 1-OSD/OSA-PSD/OS. 1-ADPD/COMPT
FORM
7.62 1551
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

27 September 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff

ATTENTION : Mr. Charles Danish

SUBJECT : Termination of Contract Personnel
Ross L. Crozier

1. Mr. Ross L. Crozier, a Career Agent assigned to
Special Affairs Staff, has tendered his resignation from
the Agency. In accordance with the terms of his contract,
he gave 90 days notice making his termination effective
close of business 28 November 1963.

2. Subject's employment history was established by
Mr. Biladeau of the Central Cover Staff in conjunction with
the Outplacement Branch of the Personnel Operations Division.
Mr. Crozier was advised that he should indicate employment
by CIA from his EOD date (1 June 1949) through the above
termination date when applying for a position with another
Government Agency. If seeking employment with private busi-
ness, however, he was to utilize the employment history pro-
vided him by the Outplacement Branch.

3. It is requested that Central Cover Staff's records
be noted accordingly. Contract Personnel Division should be
requested to refer all inquiries concerning Crozier's employ-
ment to the Outplacement Branch of the Personnel Operations
Division, effective immediately. The Outplacement Branch will
acknowledge Agency employment when the inquiry comes from a
Government source, and will deny Agency affiliation to all
other inquirers

SECRET

Desmond Fitzgerald
Chief, Chief, Special Affairs Staff

Ecket pestic
Gintong and

14-00000
SECRET

(Von rialen (n).
TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

I, Ross L. Crozier am about to terminate шу
association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of my duties with
the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which
concerns the present and future security of our country. I am aware that the
unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the espionage laws
of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence
sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR,
WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS,
AS FOLLOWS:

1. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or other-
wise, any information relating to the national defense and security and partic-
ularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods,
personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not limited
to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government
employee or official without the express written consent of the Chief of the
Organization or his authorized representative.

2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may have
against the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate the
disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that any such
claims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, that I am
not satisfied with the decisions of the Organization concerning any present or
future claims I may submit, I will not take any other action to obtain satisfac-
tion without prior written notice to the Organization, and then only in accordance
with such legal and security advice as the Organization will promptly furnish me.

3. I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified or un-
classified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibility of the
Organization, having come into my possession as a result of my duties with the
Organization or otherwise.

4. During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the Organ-
ization I have been given an opportunity to report all information about the
Organization, its personnel, and its operations which I consider should receive
official cognizance.. Hence, I am not aware of any information which it is my
duty, in the national interest, to disclose to the Organization, nor am I aware
of any violations or breaches of security which I have not officially reported,
except as set forth on the reverse side of this sheet or on other attachments.

30 Aug. 63
201-168881

FORM
1-38 1379 (12)
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
(Then Filled in)

5. I have been advised that, in the event I am called upon by the properly con-
stituted authorities to testify or provide information which I am pledged hereby
not to disclose, I will notify the Organization immediately; I will also advise
said authorities of my secrecy commitments to our government and will request that
my right or need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

6. I am aware of the provisions and penalties of the espionage laws of our gov-
ernment and am fully aware that any violation on my part of certain matters sworn
to by me under this oath may subject me to prosecution under the terms of these
laws, and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject to appropriate
action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances war-
rant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix my
signature hereto with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for the
mutual benefit of myself