14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

FBI document 2. RI FILE NO. 200
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE
NY 004
FB-39107 22 APR 63
THE UNITED STATES FESTIVAL COMMITTEE,
INCORPORATED (EIGHTH WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL) 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO
201-280246 RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN (201-289246)
DE T-2 ADVISED DURING SEPTEMBER, 1962, THAT ON SEPTEMBER 15, 1962, CARL AND HELEN
WINTER HELD A BUFFET SUPPER OPENHOUSE AT THEIR RESIDENCE, 9556 BUFFETT, PETROIT, IN
HONOR OF THEIR DAUGHTER, MICHELE WINTEF, UPON HER RETURN FROM THE EIGHTH WORLD YCUTE
FESTIVAL.
DE T-3 ADVISED ON MARCH 18, 1963, THAT CARL WINTER WAS THE STATE CHAIFMAN OF THE MOCP
DE T-1, ON MARCH 20, 1963, ADVISED THAT HELEN WINTER WAS CURRENT MELBER OF THE
YOUTH CLUB OF THE MDCP.
DE T-2 STATED THAT AT THE OFENHOUSE MICHELE WINTER GAVE A TALK AND TOLD OF VISITING
SOCIALIST CITIES, SCHOOLS, FACTOFIES, HOUSING, AND TRANSPORTATION. SHE TOLD OF
VISITING LENINGRAD, VOLGAGFAD, MOSCOW, AND EAST GERMANY.
MICHELE EXHIBICED SOUVENIRS WHICH SHE PROUGH BACK, AMONG THEM THE FED FLAG AND THE
EAST GERMAN FLAG. MICHELE SAID SHE HAD MOST OF HER SOUVENIFS SENT BACK FROM THE
COUNTRIES FROM WHERE CHE ACQUIRED THEN AND CAFRIED HER LITERATURE IN THE BOTTOM OF
HER BAG, WHICH HAD A SHOULDER STFAP. SHE SAID THIS WAY SHE HAD NO TROUBLE WITH
CUSTOMS AND IMPORT AUTHORITIES IN THE DIFFERENT COUNTRIES.

15.
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201-289246

FORM 867
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SECRET (7-46)

---

14-00000

DOC. SYMBOL & NO. FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
FBI/DBD-95432 201-0289246

DOC. SUBJECT
HELEN MARY WINTER

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution. Dissem. No., etc. if applicable)
THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED IN THE TOP SECRET CONTROL
SECTION BY TSA 208998
File
201.289246
#135

Also Also
DBD-87447 TS-207886 DAD'E
DBD-93319 TS-207391
(4-6)
(5-36)

CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

201
201
DISPATCH
DISPATCH
(7-46)

201-289246
201-289246
(7-46)

104-10209-10017 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
TO
DISPATCH™ CLASSIFICATION HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
SECRET
Chief of Station, Burnos Aires 201-6145
Chief, H CATE
Chief, H 25 August 1961
FROM SUBJECT (FE 43.3 CHECK ONE)
Acting Chief of Station, Madrid MARKED FOR INLENG
Counter Espionage NO NOSING PLOURED
Lais TEDESCHI, aka Inis TEDECHI INDEXRIG CAN JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HO DESK ONLY
ACTION REQUIRED
REFERENCES
FYI
ΟΙΠΕΝ-18463, 29 May 1961
Ca receipt of reference, Kadrid Station, traces were run on the Subject
with negative results. Traces were also requested of the CUANTUM cervice
and on 21 August 1961 they informed us that they had no record of the
Subject in their files. In this case the QUANTUM service also carried out
traces in the QUOTA files for KULARK.

24 August 1961 ANTHOLY B. KAKA
Sistribution:.
2- Buenos Aires
2-CE
2 - слн
FORM USE PREVIOUS EDITION
10.57 ABM/rat REPLACES FORMS
51 28 51-28A AND 51.29 PAGE NO
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE CONTINUED

FORM
10-5753
(40)
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS
51-28, 51-28A AND 51 29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE
CS COPY
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
ANTHOLY B. KAKA
289247
PAGE NO
CONTINUED

14-00000. DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYADOL AND NO
SEC227
10 ON ドﾘ
TO
Chief of tation, Puenos tires HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
Chief, Battat Chief, 201-6145
Chief, DATE
13 July 1961
FROM
Chief of Station, Rone
SUBJECT. Counter Espionago X7 RE 43-3-(CHECK "X"
MARKED FOR INDEXING
Inis 8c (Possibly Lais ?)
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ACTION REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HOL DESK ONLY
PEFERENCEIS)
01-10-63, 29 May 1961
Filo chocks conducted on Subject through Police Liaison are normative.

Distributions... PANCIS K. BUCKY
2-Beanos Aires
41/4
1-11
201-289247
21-111تخل
CLASSIRCATION PAGE NO
SECRET CONTINUED
FORM USE PREVIOUS EDITION
10-5753 REPLACES FORMS
51-28, 51-28A AND 51 29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE
CS CORS
الله
00

14-00000 DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
4- TO OSBA-1924
Chief, WE (Attention NUDESK).
HEADQUARTERS HLE NO
INFO
Chief of Station, Vadrid. 201-6145
FROM SUBJECT DATE
Chief of Base, Barcelona S 13 June 1961
Counter Espionage RE. "433" (CHECK "X" ORVE)
Luis TEDESCHI, possibly Luis TEDECHI MARKED FOR INDEXING
ACTION REQUIRED For your information NO INDEXING PEQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
PEFERENCE(S)... BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY
OIRW-18463
There are no base file or QUOTA traces on Subject in Barcelona.
13 June 1961
Distribution:
3- Headquarters
2- Madrid
2
Files
Elaine B. Friedwald
Elaine B. Friedwald
USE PREVIOUS EDITION CLASSIRICA 21-284247
REPLACES FORMS.
51-38, 51-28A AND SI-29 CS COPY 201-6145
WHICH ARE ORSOLETE SECRET CONTINUED
PAGE NO

14-00000 CLASSIFICAT PROCESSING
ACCOM
DISPATCH ACTION PLISHED
το Chiefs of Station, Rome, Madrid; CCB, Barcelona MADEPOR INDEXING
NO REGLIRED ABSTRACT
FROM Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
SUBJECT Counter Espionage
Luis TEDESCHI, possibly Luis TEDESCHI ACTION PEQUIRED MICROFILM
REFERENCES
See paragraph 3
:
1. A source who has given highly reliable information in the past, and
whom we have no reason to question, has stated that during 1943 one Luis
TEDESCHI was either being considered for recruitment by/or was actually work-
ing for the RIS. According to the source, he was known to have been active
as a member of the Bpanish Communist Party. The address used by TEDESCHI
during early 1943 was Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
2. The Buenos Aires Station hes determined that a Luis TEDESCHI, born
2 February 1918, is listed in local police files as living at El Dorador 3150,
telephone 58-3717. Further investigation is being corducted there. Unfortu-
nately, Headquarters does not have the date and place of birth of Subject of
paragraph 1. The source has indicated that Subject was probably born in Italy
and way have been active in the Spanish Civil War 1936-39. This, of course,
could explain his involvement in the Spanish Communist Party.
3. It is requested that Rome, Barcelona, and Madrid check station and
Base files for any traces of Subject. Liaison and police contacts may be
approached for any information available in their files.
4. Please address replies in this matter "Attention KUDESK."

Distribution: GERALD NUTTAND
2 Rome
1 Barcelona
1 Madrid
1. Buenos Aires
RECLASSIFIED DATE TYPED CATE DISPATCHED
20 May 1961
12 JUN 1961
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OTPM-18463
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-6145
RUTING INITIAL OFFICE
WE/X
ORIGINATING 219247
OFFICER
TYPIST 2528
John D. Walker sis
COORDINATING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S NAME
C/WE/4
C/WE/5 Thomas Theile
C/CI/SID D. J. WALKER Oscar H. Selle
RI/FI RELEASE OFFICER SIGNATURE.
John D. Walker
FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS ED (40) PLACES FORM sta DISPATCH

14-00000

MEMOPANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/Project
SUBJECT: Luis TEDESCHI

DRAFT

7 February 1961
1. This office is extremely interested in obtaining all available information
on ore Luis TECESCHI, who was reported to be residing at Pichincha 969, Buenos
Argentina
Aires, in the early part of 1943, at which time he allegedly was of interest
to the PIS. The attached document refers to a Luis TEDESCHI residing at
this address in 1942 and to an individual by the name of TEDESCHI who had
resided at Estados Unidos 0366 in 1942. Apparently the information as shown on
the attached document was obtained through mall intercepts.
2. We would appreciate having you tell us if you know of any way we might
locate the intercepts referred to and possibly any other intercepts directed
to TEDESCHI 4.8. Offre of
In action.

Attachment: 1
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 Addressee
2- CI/SIG

BIRCH D. O'NEAL
CI/SIG/EAGEgerter:jm Chief, CI/SIG

DRAFT

14-00000 1/1
DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING
SECRET MADERTANING
TO Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
ABSTRACT
FROM Chief, WH
SUBJECT Counter Intelligence/Luis TEDEDCHI (Correct spelling believed to be TILESCHI) ACTION REQUIRED
REFERENCES
See Paras. 3 and li
HABA-9016 of 4 November 1960
1. Headquarters regrets that it has been unable to learn the date and place
of birth of the Luis TEDESCHI who, according to a usually reliable source, was being
considered for recruitment in 1943 by the FIS, or was actually working for the FIS.
As stated in HA-6515, our source reported that the address used by TEDESCIII during
the early part of 1943 was Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires.
2. Collateral information on Luis TEDESCHI of Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires,
has been found in a 19.2 document which appears to have been based on censorship
reports. This document indicates that TEDESCHI's address, as given above, was a
cover address for a UDE (Union Democratica Espanola) manifesto sent from Cuba.
Also one TEDESCHI, Estados Unido 366, Buenos Aires, was given as a cover address
in a secret writing message. A copy of the pertinent portions of this document
is attached.
3. It is hoped that a unilateral surveillance on the Luis TEDEDCHI living at
El Domador 3150, Buenos Aires, if instituted as the station planned, will be
fruitful. Headquarters will be extremely interested in any further information on
this individual you may be able to develop, as it is possible that he may be linked
with Communist and/or RIS activities in Cuba as well as being used locally by the RIS.
4. As..KUDESK is currently handling this case, it is requested that the slug
PEDWOOD not be used.
OLIVER G. GALBOND

Attachment: 1
Distribution: CROSS REFERENCE TO
Orig. & 1- Addressee,
with one attachment CLASSIFICATION DATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED
SECRET 6 February 1962 10 FEB 1961
OFFICE DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
1-WH/2, no att. HABE-6669
CI/SIG HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
ROUTING - 201-289247
FID for 201-
100289247, 1 att. ORIGINATING TYPIST EXT
5-CI/SIG, 1 att Cter
COORDINATING 2621
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S NAME
WH
C.CT/STG
RELEASING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S SIGRATURE
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION. REPLACES PORY 610 WHICH MAY BE USED.
WH/T. C.
DISPATCH

14-00000
Hart wur to HABW-6669

3/4012
FROY : TO
No nas, HAVANA. CUBA
A. L13 TEDE , PICHINCHA 969, KS, ARIANTINA,
Saal: 3th Jy to 14th August 1942 , Spanish

AND CONDITIONS IN SPAUNISTS
from interviews with eraone .
This cover contains Reports Yes, 250-3, 355 3 2nd 571, cried
Late Tecmas pain, and deser

the extent

attitude of de Santah pas le te war and nei jov rrment,
of German penetratt in Brain and 35" aliae advice
and standing of political parties of e Rihi ass Left in Spain, and generd
living enditions in the country. The crop re; arts mans.
of both Coast and Falandot such sers,

PRETEOUS RECORDS:
THI.1001/42, TRI.116-3/42, 15860
TEL. 27, and 1.14201/42 cover er "pe of re re on the same subject.
8/4555
covers a group of recerts on the Epamat politiod
scene, possibly from the same source as the
above, which may be VICENTE CRISK, the Communist
leader, whose headquarters are in CUBA. Зе
alsc 22.14567/42.57.14974/42, SER.19252/42.
Addresses, LOIS TEDESCHI, is shown by TRI.15320/42 to be a cover darves for
AU.C.E. (UNT DEROCRATICA ESPANOLA) Manifesto sent fro: Cuba. He may
alas be to TED3SCHE, STADOS DOS 3366, who is given as a cover adoresa
in the s. message in TRI.14725/42 (secret).
att TO HEWLE 1201-250uy

14-00000 DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
HABA-9016
TO
Chief, WID SECRET HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
FEB 23 1951 201-6145
INFO
Chief, SED
DOCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE 4 November 1960
FROM SUBJECT
:
Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
REDWOOD/DIPROVE X RE 433 (CHECK ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEX G
Jais #TELEDCEL NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ACTION REQUE INDEXING CAN BE ILOGID
BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY
See Paragraph 2
REFERENCE S
HAB-6515
1. In view of the fact that Subject dispatch presented a
possible lead to an RIS agent, it was decided to do a unilateral
check on TEDEDCHI rather than refer the matter to liaison. As a
result of investigations undertaken by BIPALA-l, the Station learned
that:

Luis EDEDCHI
Is listed in the Buenos Aires police files as
living at El Domador 3150, with telephone number
58-3717, and has no record of police offences.
This individual was born on 2 February 1918.
2. If possible, it is requested that Headquarters attempt to
confirm the above date of birth with the source of reference. The
Station plans to institute a unilateral surveillance on Subject, and
will keep Headquarters informed of pertinent developments.
Coult
Distribution: Carlton G. RECART
3 Chief, WHD
1-Chief, SRD
1- Chrono
1-File: 201-6145
DCA Lee to wiHD
BCHeighan/okb
CS COPY
FORM
10-57 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
(40) REPLACES FORMS,
57 28, 51-28A AND 51 29.
WHICH ARE ONGOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET CONTINUED PAGE NO.
1 of 1

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION
SECRET MADE FOR INDEXING
HO REQUIED
το Chiefs of Station, Buenos Aires
ABSTRACT
FROM Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT General-Counter Espionage
Specific-Luis TEDEDCHI
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
See Para. 2
1. à source who has given extremely reliable information in the past,
has stated that, during 1943, one Luis TEDESCHI was either being considered
for recruitment by the RIS or was actually working for the RIS. TEDESCHI
was known to have been an active member of the Spanish Communist Party.
The address used by TEDESCHI during the early part of 1943 was Fichincha 969,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
2. Our source was unable to provide further information on TEDESCHI
and Headquarters' files contain no pertinent identifiable information on
him. It is requested that you check all available records including any
appropriate local services for any information on TEDESCHI that may be
available.
(3
MICROFILMED
JAN 6 1961
DOCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE
DIST
FILE CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION DATE TYPED
SECRET
OFFICE ORIGINATING OFFICER sis
AEGEgerter jrm
DI P ROUIING INITIAL
Buenos Aires
COORDINATING
4/07
+1 OFFICERS NAME EXT
2356
DATE
WH/20
CL/SIG.
RET RELEASING 242847
OFFICE STI DATE OFFICER'S SIGRATURE
CHIET WH/J.
USE PREVIOUS EDITION PLACES FOR L 1049
FORM 5-60 DISPATCH

14-00000

5 October 1960

SUBJECT: Luis TEDESCHI

1. A Source, who has given extremely reliable
information in the past, stated that, during 1943,
Subject was either being considered for recruitment by
the RIS or vas actually working for the RIS.

2. Subject is known to have been an active
member of the Spanish Corrumist Party. The address
used by Subject during the ecrly part of 1943 was
Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires.

3. It is requested that Latin American, as well
as Spanish and Portuguese stations be asked to check
available local services for any possible traces on
Bubject.

#75

14-00000

TO Courn Egirtu
BRANCH ROOM & BLDG. PHONE
REQUEST 40. Ci/SIE 1408 8 2621
REQUEST CATE
21 12
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET.

FROM:
DATE TO DATE RECEIVED IFCHA NOED OFFICER'S COMMENTS
A
9861
A

11. FBT 7:3012-55'
RLG 2212 26/4 28/41
SECRET

14-00000

OFFICE OF ORIGIN REPORT MADE AT DATE
HABANA, CUBA
5048 15 Jan-to
SUBJECT PERIOD COVERED
2045
GENERAL 1474,4-0

SPECIFIC Spanish. Communist Party
REFERENCE 4-LA files; B-ACAAC.
SOURCE A-LA files; B-ACAAC.

SYNOPSIS

1.

ADMINISTRATIVE ADDEIDUM:

REGISTRY COFY

EVALUATION
2
DISTRIBUTION
C-3
Hash (3)
Mexico (1)
Puenos Aires (1)
Files (2)
No other distr.

APPROVED BY
Pernille
WIS

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET Series No. 1-344
16 March 1946
SUBJECT: Crenich Communist Party

b. Lexico

SECRET 200-4-5-33

14-00000
SECRET Series H. 7-344
d. March 16, 1943

SECRET 21-45-55

14-00000

a.
SECRET Series No. 7-14
March 16, 1043

100-7-5-55

14-00000 SECRET 7-24
371
AIR DISPATCH NO, -5638
CLASSIFICATION DATE: 11 January 1954
TO: Chief, CE 1:O: Senior Representativo, Komo
FROM : Chief of Micsion, Trieste
SI/INTEL
SUBJECT: GENERAL-
SPECIFIC- SI Activities and Plans for 20 March 1954
REF: TRIE 2069; STTA-3697, catec 14 January 1954

The following information was obtained from $30/C/309(5), dated 22 January
1954, a resort of the Crieste Security, Office (British Fieli Security Service)
made available by CEOPA. Source is PILSEN (Evaluation is 7). Date of in-
formation is 19 January 1954.

Riccardo GORICH presided at an 131 meeting held on a Rismondo.
Approximately thirty persons were present. COFTER-NODRICH told the stucents
of "Giovane Italia" that it was inadvisable to demonstrate against the sentences
imposed on students who participated in the November riots. Instead, he
invited then to concentrate their efforts and attention on preparations for
20 March, promising that he woule authorize student demonstrations on that date.

It is rrumred that a new clandestine organization, composed of approximately
260 youths who are members of the MSI and other parties, is teing formed
under Brano PARSETTI (TSO Comment: Bruno MARSETTI is possibly identical with
Salvatore ARSETTI.) This organization consists of action squais of twenty
to twenty-five men, each squad being under one leader. -SETTI was expected
to return from Rone during the weekend of 23-24 January with arms and funds
for this organization. In the opinion of source, these arms and funds are
supplied by prominent Masons in Rome and Milan. Source stated that the or-
ganization is being formed with the knowledge of GEFTER-SONDRICH, although
the latter attempts to evade any responsibility therefor.

The action squad leaders aut daily in different locations to aiscuss progress.
At the present time they have no headquarters. Their principal tack appears
to be the formation of plans for demonstrations on 20 March. They state that
20 March will be their day of revenge against police. The following persons
are leaders of action squads:

Constantino DE MARCO
Aurelio D'ALEOSIO
Pasquale BUONATUTO
Orazio 20SCOLO
SAINA (fou), brother of Duilio SANNA
Natale A

7-46)
AI COPY
4240
Security formatica

14-00000

Seomy Laforrrctica
Secret Control
US Offcic's Dely
STTA-3759
5 February 1954
page 2

5. The following data is from 750/0/309(4), dated 19 January 1954. Source
1s FILSEN. Date of information is le January 1954. The following :SI
members me in the Buffet Gallopin, in Piazza Colaoni:

Constantino DE MARCO
Aurelio D'ALESSIO
Pasquale 3CAISTO
Orazio BOSCOLO (armed with pistol)
SANA (nu) (armed with pistol)
Natale ΞΡΑ

Subjects discussed PARSETTI's trip to Rome. FA-SETTI had left for Rome
on 16 Јаллагy, arriving on 15 January, and had telepnonea Trieste that
he would "oring back the goods. The meeting also discussed plans for
demonstrations on 20 March. It was decided to use acid in small bottles
in limited quantities against the police.

6. (Dr. TEDESCHI (Inu), manager of the Ridotto in the Rossetti Theater, keeps
MSI arms stored there.

Michael L. Rosemont
Michael L. Rosemont

30 January 1954
Distribution:
3- Headquarters
2- Roma

Security formatica
Secret Control
ES Officiels Only

77-7-12-240

FROM: London, England SECKET CONTROL
U.S. GHLY
GERRE WAL-28265
TO:
L BY: 2621
R-6
ORIGINATING BY:
SOURCE CRYPTO
ATTEN TION

INDEX
SEORET CONTROL
U.S.OFFICIALS COLY
17-7-24-1170

Date of Information July 1952.

Country: ITALY

Subject: The S.T.I.M. Machine Tool Factory, ILAN.
Remarks:

Source: Believed reliable, based on documentary evidence.
43.7-28-10

I TALY
Achin Cool ctory,

Icoration.
firm, ich designs machinery for construction in other factorios,
has its tecnical officco in Viale of and its sales crerteent in
Via ". Picco. 3,

Personalitics
2.
The anager is COSSEC, a Gerencia formar sanager of a
Geraan caching tool factory. He is assisted by Ing, sa and by other
technicita,

3. Production.
The Fira designs and/or produces on a sub-contracting basis tic
following types of reclincs:-

Haching tools for the manufacture of micron bearing balls, stccl
bearing balis, cylindrical roiler bearings, conical roller bearings,
ages for ball bearings, external and internal ringe for ball
bearings, aczing needles, bicycle accessorics, count for typewriters,
cccentric presses for hot and cold stamping, sandpapering Lachines,
social grinders, oscillating grinders, acctors, rotary rolling
wills, control instruments, ancamatic bars, splining machines,
and
rectifiers, presses, drilling chines, polishing machines.

Bents.
Tith the crecption of sork very call ites, the cachincs designed
by the firm are not covered by patcats.

5. Destination of Cutmat.
The firm's products ar sald on the home market.
43-7-24-1/7)

14-00000
N.Y.-Si Op. 38
3/4618
NOT SECRET
FROM : TO
No name, HAVANA, CUBA.
SA. LUIS TEDESC", PICHINCHA 969, BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINE,
3th July to 14th August 1942 : Spanish 6734
OPINION AND CONDITIONS IN SPAIN REPOTS CALLED SY COMMUNISTS
FRA INT LEVESSS WITH PASSES FR SPAIN.

This cover contains Reports Nos. 350-3, 3558 and 371, compiled
from interviews with ersons w have recently left Spain, and describe the
attitude of the Sanish peo:le to the war and to their Covernment, the extent
of Garman penetration in Spain and of Sparsh and to the Axis, the activities
and standing of political parties of the Right and Left in Spain, and genera
living conditions in the country. This group of reports contains onirions
of both Communist and Falanist sympathisers.

PREVIOUS RECORDS:
TRI.10901/42, TRI.11693/42, 1 5560
TRI. 24567, and P1.14201/42 cover groups of reports on the same subject.
8/4555
covers a group of reports on the Spanish politica
scene, possibly from the same source as the
above, which may be VICENTE URIBE, the Communist
leader, whose headquarters are in CUBA. See
also BER.14567/42, BER.14974/42, BER.19252/42.

Addressee, LUIS TEDESCHI, is shown by TRI.13828/42 to be a cover address for
a 0.5.8. (CATON DEMOCRATICA ESPANOLA) Manifesto sent from Cuba. He may
also be the TEDESCIT, ESTADOS UNIDOS 8366, who is given as a cover addres8
in the saw message in TRI.14725/42 (secret).

REPORT No,350
Results of our first conversati n with a young man from TORREL VEGA,
SANTANDER, about 28 years old. At the beginning of the war he was in the
army in KOROCCO and spent the whole war in Franco's army. He comes from a family
of small garage-owners. Neither he nor any of is family have telonged to any
political party or syndicate although his sympaties have always been on the left.

SPANISH ATTITUDE TO THE REGIME AND THE WAR. - He says that the immense
majority of the Spanish people is against Franco and the Falange, workers, peasants,
exployees, bourgeois, big and small and a large proportion of the soldiers
and the Roquetes. He says that everyone hopes for the vistory of the Allies.
In it there is a blind trust, especially when the U.S. entered the war as the
U.S. and England are the most powerful countries in the world, especially with
the assistance of Russia. Only the Falangists desire and plan for the victory
of Hitler, even though there are many Falangists too who take a very black dow
of in. He says the majority of people sympathise with England. They have
complete faith in the victory of the Democracies. There are sup orters of the
USSR, but the immense majority, according to our informant, do not like "commurd sa
and prefer Democracy. He is obviously rather muddled by the Falangist pro agenda
against the U.S.S.R. Es says that the entrame of the U.S.S.R. into the war gave
rise to happiness all over the world, although there had been a great deal of
confusion before, through the Treaty of Aid between Russia and Germany." But this
confusion disappeared with German aggression against the U.S.8.R. He says that
the German defeats on the Russian front raised morale and renewed everyone's
confidence in victory. Hitler's admission in his speech of how much they had
suffered in Russia in winter, and that they were on the edge of catastrophe..
produced great joy among the people. In says that the entry of the U.8. inte
the Bar canesd a very gobi impression, and incressi podplats confidence in
victory although Pearl Harbour caused some demoralisation. He says that no one
wishes Spain to enter the war, except the Falangists. Franco does not wish it

14-00000
- 2 - 3/4612
himself, and desires neutrality But since these who command are Serrano Sanar
and the Palangists, Franco has no choice but to do what Hitler orders him, and
there is serious danger of war for Spain. He says that the Anglo-Soviet and the
Soviet Azerican pact are known through the Falangist press which has spoken of
them. They made a very good impression on the people. Asked if he knew that
the said pact stipulated that after the victory nations would have freedom to
decide their destinies without foreign interference, ha says yes, the press
published it. Acot the Second Front me says that everyone thinks of it, and
is hoping for it to o en if possible throch Spain. That the day they disembark,
all the people will rise. Asked what the people would do in case of a landing
in France, he said that his o iron was that if that happened the Spanish
people would rise, even to the invasion was not on their coasts. The agreement
about the Second Front is also known. He says the people who are most fervent
supporters of the Nazis are Scrrane Suner, Primero de Rivera, and a certain
Count whose name he does not now. He often says that he nows nothing of politics,
because he only read the sports meas in the papers and did ot want to know any-
thing about the Falange. He says that there are many preparations for war; they
are making fortifications on the coasts of Galicia and placing a considerable
amount of artillery there. He says that the political force of the Falange and
the syndicates is "artificial": ev ryone hates them. The eo: le belong to the
syndicate because they can't help it, but they do not pay their dues or take
them seriously. Discontent has even reached the ranks