104-10105-10137 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

UTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Review for Approval - Manuscript Submitted by
Mr. David A. Phillips
FROM: EXTENSION NO.
J. F. Meehan 7770 DATE 5 Jan 1976
C/EAB, 4E33 Hq.
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building). INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. C/CCS Subject, a retired Agency
GH-44, Att: Mr. H. Schor staff employee and former
C/LA Div., has submitted
the attached manuscript
containing three (3) chapters
of a book he has in
preparation. Coordination
for review and comment is
requested to determine if
the material: (1) is
classified, (2) was learned
while the writer was
employed by the Agency,
or (3) has not been placed
in the public domain by the
Agency.

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9. J. F. MEEHAN Please note author's query
for information contained
C/EAB 4E 33 in paragraph 3 of his letter
FYI. The author had
previously submitted
Chapters I and VIII which
were security approved with
deletions.

10. Coordination for review is
being conducted with LA Div.,
CI Staff, CCS, DDO/SS/SOG,
and DDO/SSU.

11.

12. It would be appreciated if
this office could have your
comments before COB
16 Jan 1976.
13. 1 TOG

14. SEE CCS COMMENTS ON
REVERSE SIDE
15. SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED

1 to 9:
CCS recommends deletion of that part of the last sentence, following
the semi-colon of the first paragraph on page 10 of Chapter XI, which qa
identifies (Camp Perry) as the site of Agency training courses. (Camp Perry)
is an Agency training installation under DOD cover, and while its CIA
affiliation has been alleged numerous times in the press, no confirmation
of this affiliation has been made by the Agency. Mr. Phillips' comments
as a former senior Agency officer can be interpreted as constituting
official acknowledgement of the CIA/CAMP PERRY relationship
49
HCS
