14-00000
104-10176-10068 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MASFERRER Y ROJAS, ROLANDO
201- 42669
(VOL. VII)

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN. 64 THRU 31 DEC. 65
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS.

DATE DATE
RECEIVED! RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
4 AUG 70 PAT ORR Phon

MASFERRER Y ROJAS, Rolando Hisaاحده

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
SECRET
-14-
23. Approximately in July 1904 1-1 had a second interview with "Nordicc
in the presence of "Jim" and "Enrique."
24. At the special request of the "friends," in September and October
1964 we sent forward reports on the officers of the Revolutionary Armed
Porces in the six provinces, including any background data and informa-
tion we had on them. Afterwards, the work of making Summaries of Infor-
**nation was intensified.

25. During August-September-October 1964 picket lines were formed in
front of the airline companies that had fiigats to Mexico, and in front
of airports, Mexican tourist agencies, and Hexican Consulates as a pro-1
test against the Mexican Government and its policy with relation to Cuba
This was done in Puerto Rico, Venezuela, Fiami, wew York and other place
in the United States. This was done daily in Miami and New York. On
different occasions pickets were placed in front of theaters which were
showing Mexican films. in October pickets were placed in Miami and Miam
Beach and propaganda was hanced out at the time of the holding of the
ASTA (Thirty-fourth World Congress of Travel Agencies).

26. In November 1954 we began to pass information to the "friends" abou
the training camps which were being opened in New Jersey to prepare and
train people for the invasion of Haiti. We infiltrated sore of our peopt
into this group and thus kept informed of everything that went on.

27. At the end of 1954 and up to April 1965 we continued to make studies
Among them were those on the Cuban Telephone Enterprise, the Department
of Port and Coastal Vigilance, censorship of correspondence, Cuban natior
al budgets 1954/65, radio programs heard in Cuba.

28. At the request of the "friends" we collaborated in the reception ac.
tivities for Juanita CASTRO and obtained the support of the exile organi
zations for rallies organized in Miami and liew York.

29. In December 1964 we organized a great propaganda campaign, mobilizis
all the Masonic lodzes so they would back the proposal of the Masons who
were supporting LOPEZ Mateos at the UN.

30. We acted as a support mechanism to the "friends" in the matter con-
cerning Hrs. LIPPERT.

31. In the first months of 1965 an attempt was made on three different
occasions to carry out Rescue Operation No. 1.

32. During the first months of 1965 we kept informed about the situation
in the Dominican Republic and the participation of the Cubans and Domini;
cans in the Miami area in what was going on.

33. During this whole period, in view of the division existing among the
exiles and of the formation of so many new exile groups, we infiltrated
our agents into all the organizations and reported on all the moverה וז
of leaders of these groups and their activities, on all their state
and action plans. Our aim and purpose was to report everytusin; about
the movements of the Cubans and the exile groups.

34. During this period we also began carding all our reports for the
i

14-00000
(Organization)
WATTE

Bestia org-barred by Joseph, cental 115, and Lo
has tad very little purensretting artallet. 15 sorantly t
Telves ar levitation from the s and is presently monit

A force of 150 to 200 traised are of the Bettina exile group.
TDCCS-315/01038, 16 Oct 64 file 201-06)

WE N' to any wave is FARER FEE MF BF 583MRR RO ARTHI UT SEAREJAAND was asodine on easy
gwe. is Baiti, but will expat the Governmeat in Exile's canfilatee, et serarting
to source, Ferain Joseph of STC, is arafast Casunisa and agatest any Comics is any Pa
CoverEDent of Faiti.
284-43612, 18 June 63 file 3696

One of 5 organizations contined se Faitian exile organization called DF: Sre 183.
224-59773, 18 Dec 63 file 201-119281

Esition exile organization. Leaders of this organization and legten Literatri bare
effered to place themselves water the perstral jenterstilp of mom, we sles les & verting
relationship with the lesiers of Jeune Faiti. These three grage, sions with the axties la
Lasto Baringo & those sow is its vill fers part of the FAI, but without losing thetr
infividual graça identity.
105 36 035 1 ( 7 17) 16 Sept 6 ERACE/1 PTO.

"Comet" erigially forsed in 1963, recently re-activated. Orgnaization has reportelig
gives silitary training to seaters and some here bere sent to the Randare.
srpertedly plans to invade Raiti.
324 96183, 25 Jun 65

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: (Optional)
INTERNAL
ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Colond arcatro MASTERRER

FROM:

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
1. "RILAN
2. RI/MIS
4.
5.
Ri/files
7.
6.
9.
10.
١١.
12.
13,
14.
15.
FOR
3-62
EXTENSION
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED

SECRET
DATE
XAAZ 17997
17ταν 64 18 Π..by

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

This was delivered
SATRUE
on 17 v 6.4.
W

610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL
CLASCI LO al
AN QUA
201-42669

File
THX
PS
BX 2
DES

1011042669
ASSTAT
ΧΑΛΖ 17997
BAIL 18 Aug 64

201-042669
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000
GATISINAL FORM NO. 10
9115-104
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO : Mrs. Sue Panzer
FROM : Chief, DO Division
ECOCET
СТВ
XAAZ 17997
DATE: 18 August 1964
SUBJECT' Meeting with Rolando Masferrer. MAR 27 1972
DOC. MICRO. SER.
MICROFILMED

1. In accordance with our conversation, I am sending you the
facts as I know them regarding the 7 August meeting in New York City
between Rolando Masferrer and Averell Clark..

2. Apparently Masferrer knows Stanley Ross, the Editor of El
Tiempo, a Spanish-language newspaper published in New York. The
office is at 78 Fifth Avenue and the telephone number is WA 4-2750.
Possibly Masferrer did not previously know Ross. But at any rate, either
on his own or through someone else, he got in touch with him in late July
or early August and said that he wanted to be put in touch with an American
with an aviation and military background. I do not know too much about
Ross at the moment except that he has had considerable Latin American
experience and would be a logical person for any Latino to approach. It
would be very easy to obtain additional evidence on him if desired.

3. I am attaching for your information a list of the stockholders
in El Tiempo, Inc, to provide some indication of who is behind Ross. In
addition, we have a list of all the senior officers of El Tiempo.

4. Ross knew of Clark through the Hitchcocks listed, as you will
note, as stockholders. Mrs. Margaret Hitchcock is Clark's aunt, while
Thomas Hitchcock III is his first cousin as presumably, is William
Hitchcock. During the war Clark was an outstanding fighter pilot, having
flown with the RAF through the roughest days of the Battle of Britain, and
thereafter chifted to the Americans with whom he flew many missions as
a P-47 pilot. He is still in the Air Force Reserve,

5. A: Ross's request Clark met Masferrer at the El Tiempo office
in New York City on 7 August, Ross left the room so that the session was
only between Clark and Masferrer. As a pro-Batista Cuban, Masferrer
was known to us at the time of the Bay of Pigs. In fact, at one point just
before the invasion, the U.S. Department of Justice arrested him and put
him in jail in Florida for violation of the provisions of the Neutrality Act.
1 ATT H/W
SECTET
18764
201-042669

14-00000
чку
-2-

6. Masferrer alleged to Clark that he was representing some twenty
Cuban exile organizations, and that he was working with a Haitian, Charles
Forben, head of an anti-Duvalier organization known as "Capois La Mort."
Forben allegedly asked Masferrer to help his organization by leasing or
buying a PBY-5 aircraft for use against Duvalier. Masferrer claimed that
Forben's group was in a position to take control of the Ile de la Gonave;.
an island just off the west coast of Haiti in the gulf north of Port au Prince.
It is conceivable that this is the wrong island since Clark did not have the
name of the islani in question, but based on the description of its location
by Masferrer, I am assuming this to be the island involved. At any rate,
in return for help from Masferrer, Forben was to be asked to let Masferrer
and some of his Cuban exiles use the island in question as a base from which
to harrass the eastern end of the Island of Cuba.

7. Clark told Masferrer that as a member of the Air Force Reserve,
he would have to report the conversation to the USG and could not do any-
thing without clearing with the USG. Masferrer said that he had no objection
to this, particularly with regard to the activities of Forben and his group,
but he asked that Clark not mention his intention to harrass Cuba, since he
maintained that the USG would forbid this as being against USG policy. Clark
said that Masferrer would have to leave to him what matters he chose to
discuss with the USG. It was then agreed that Clark could reach Masferrer
through Ross's office for about a week, and thereafter could pass a message
to him through Ross.

8. Clark got in touch with me because I had known him during the
war; I had known his family for many years, and one of his closest friends,
James B. Watriss, is a cousin of mine and was, until about a year ago,
associated with the Agency. Incidentally, I believe that Clark has had some
discussions with SOD with the idea of possibly being used in connection with
special operations.
18 aug 64
201-042669
SEORET
20

14-00000
....
DOC. MICRO. SER.
MAR 271972
MICROFILM EL TIEMPO
STANLEY ROSS
Spanish Language National Newspaper

78 FIFTH AVENUE
New York, N. Υ. 10011
WA 4-2750
SATA STOCKHOLDERS IN EL TIEMPO, INC. F
399-162D3

Higuel Alemán, forner President of Mexico, and President of the
Mexican National Tourist Council

Nicholas Duke Biddle, investor, civic leader, Chairman of the Board
of Puerto Rican Social Service, active in
Latin American Affairs

Sanuel Berger, executive vice-President, Kinney Service Corp.
201

Enrique J JCervantes, Correspondent of EL TIEMPO, and Prominent
Public figure in Spa

Ers. Alfred L. Cornwell, wife of the former President and Chairman
of the Board of F. W. Woolworth Corp.
29/2205712
Rican Senator, industrialist, philanthropist

Willian Kellon Hitchcock, President of EL TIEMPO, Inc. and member
of the firm of Lehman Bros.

Ers. Thomas Hitchcock II, (Mrs. Margaret Hitchcock)

Er. Thomas Hitchcock III, prominent philanthropist
Sheldon
Sheldon Kravitz, executive vice-president. Exith & Dorian, Inc.

Staleozut, President of Mechanical Rubber Cors

Marshal
rshall Zuidbeis, Associate of äinecht Co is Mall Street and
leading investor in Venezzeia
MOST
Leward Robinson, president of Smith & Dorian, Inc.
251-644727

Stanle7284723 Ross, editor of EL TIEMPO, Inc. Surft TON CONTACT UDH ALANDO
MASFLASKA 201-642669 AUG 68

Lew Banoff!
29 rnoff, investor and executive, brother of Gen. David Sarnoff
of MBC and RCA
17
Haxischulsan, xlschulsan, real estate and investments

Gen. Anastasio Sonoza, President of American Hemisphere Marine,
The 'Hamenic Lines, and Lanica Airlines

Samuel Veiss, President of Rayco Stores

A++ #1E LAAZ 17997 18 Aug 17
201-042669

14-00000

Sent to Analysis
16 de: 70

LHFG 6267 26 Nov 64.
139 "

14-00000
6. ANALYST
SECRET
Filled lag
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCLAMENT IS CROSS DEFERRED TO THIS FILE
SIX MINI ?
CII A
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OF SOVOCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
7. SOURCE CRYPTONTE. DATE OF INFO.. EVALUATION
6. GATE PROCESSED
FO. DISSEMΙΝΑΤΣΟ
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. TRANSFEOULD TO
I FILE .
INFORMATION
11. DATE
019-006-095/04
COF GA-24005
14 DEC 65
PL

MM GARCIA ES 250/201-353897/ AND
PERSENS HUSTED BY SURS AND SFRA-
٢٠٢٢٤.٢٤PEZ CAYIL 1701-774518/ CONTRIBUTED
7,000 (LEADS TO THE CUBAN EXILE NEWSPAPER
MIT AMERICANO CURRENTLY HAVE FINANCIAL
CONTROL IS NEXSPAPER.
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
857....................
R 6512220097
FILE IN 201-042669
SECRET 100-15
M DecLo
っ

14-00000

FRI doc
FeTune 65 (Miami)
30
Re Rolando arcadis Masferrer Rojas
Barzan #mm 2-156.

FRI cable
Re Julynis
1 July 65
Dominican Situation

FBI cable
15 June 65
Pe Dominican Situation

FBI doe
Torayos (Miami)
Re: Jorge & Valdes Amable
Bureau 105-84265

14-00000
ANALYST
SECRET
(When Filtod In)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
8. DATE PROCESSED
ة الالوان
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2.
RI FILE NO.
GrafasLH OF SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
4. DATE
7- SOURCE CRYPTOWYN 8. DATE OF INFO.
EVALUATION
10- OFSSEMINATED I
11. DATE
18 CROSS REFERS TO HIS FILE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. TRANSFERRED TO
BI FILE .
PERTINENT INFORMATION
MASFERPER, ROLANCE
201-042669
SEX CCB ?
CIT ?
CCC ?
100-009-014
088-16116
16 JUL 65
FBI
SUBJ OF EL TIEMPC. STATEC HE HAD RECEIVED
INFCRPATION THAT ERNESTO RICARDO VALERO-
BEREU HAD TOLO ASSOCIATES PE FAC WRITTEN
ARTICLES UNDER PSEUCONYP FIALLU.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET
6610032370
FILE IN 201042669円
190461

14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
SECRET
CHEN FILLED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
1NSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and
forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation.
FROM:
TO: ACTION BRANCH
443
406 It fillows are act proper, is
sert proper the do. below and brward doc
ument to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.
RID/
Am

TO-ROOM DATE OFFICER'S
NO RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
1. WH/7/HT
2.

MICROFILI
SEP1: 【た
DOC MICRO、まん
3. 13/7/2/1 oct t
4. Vetter
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14,
15.
16.
17. RID/FI

14-00000
REPORT COVER SHEE
SECRET

JMWAVE
UFG-7482

irancis D. RACHFIELD 24 August 1965
Henry J. SLOMAN
John C. Tarbell/bcp
Philip G. ELMARD UOAMBER-6
AMOT-84
HOS

PROCESSING ACTION
30

-

-
2 00/C Miami reps FBI
2 JMBARR (for COMKWESTFOR) State I&NS
2 Panama City (for CINCSO) of: DOC. MICRO. BER.
2 Santo Domingo H2P Customs
2 Port au Prince HDC Border Patrol
USCG
HTP

DYVOUR JMPALM PBRUMEN

UOAMBER-6 from Antonio Rojas Masferrer,
23 August 1965, Paras, 4 and 5: AMOT-84 from Raul ARANGO de la
Noval (please protect) in DD-1559, 11 August 1965.

RI: Please card the following for the field:

*LEON Fernandez, Homero, Cuban emigre, Involvement with
Rolando MASFERRER in plot to invade
Haiti, Leader of FACCE,
Cit Cuba. A USA

Group 1: Excluded from
Automatic Downgrading
and Declassification
CE COPY
HQS RI COPY

24
REPORTS
AUG-25-1965

201-042669
(201

14-00000
• FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
GRADING OF SOURCE: A Completely reliable. B: Usually reliable. Co Fairly reliable. D: Rist usually refiable. E: Not refistle. (Applied
to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence). F: Refiability cannot se judged (Applied to untested or insufficiently
tested sources
APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1s Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably tram. 3. Possibly true 4s Doubts. Probably
fatse. 6s Cannot be judged,

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEN

Haiti/Cuba/Dominican Republic

Plans to Overthrow Government of 24 Angust 1965
Haiti by Leon Cantave and Rolando 2
Masferrer Rojas

August 1965
United States, Miani

UFG-7482

Source for paras, 1 to 3: Forner Latin American diplomat
who maintains relationships with officials of Latin American
countries. Source is a traized reporter and his infor-
mation has been reliable in the past. He received the
information is this report from an associate of Rolando
Masferrer Rojas.

1. On 20 August 1965 an associate of Rolando Arendio Masferrer
Rojas, former Cuban senator, said that Hasferrer is in touch
vith General Leon Cantave regarding a plot to invade Haiti
from the Dominican Republic, Hasferrer is trying to recruit
unmarried Cubans in New York who are willing to go to the
Dominican Republic and eventually to live in Haiti. He doss
not want Cubans who would want to return to the United States
because of family or for any other reason.

2. Masferrer asked Antonio Rojas Masferrer, his cousin, to manage
a farm in the Dominican Republic which will be used as a
training and staging area for about 100 men which Masferrer
will recruit. This group will be enlarged by men which Cantave
has in the Dominican Republic.

3. Cantave is negotiating with Dominicans to determine whether
the recruita frou New York vill travel to the Dominican
Republic with visas or whether they will enter the country
illegally.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEN

14-00000
!
CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
-2-
UFO-7482
Source for paras, 4 and 5: A Mendel of a group of Cuban
enigres trained in the techniques of information collection.
The group has provided useful reports since 1961, This
information is from another Cuban emigre who is associated
with Homero Leon Fernandez.

On 9 August Homero Leon Fernandez said that Masferrer will
arrive in Miami in August to complete preparations for an
invasion of Haiti. He will bring 100 men from New York, In
Miami they will be joined by 100 men from Brigade 2506 and
100 men from Leon's group. The 300 men will leave for an
undetermined place from where they will invade Haiti.

5. According to Leon, Masferrer plans to use four boats and five
aircraft for the invasion of Haiti. The aircraft will be used
to bomb Santiago de Cuba, Oriente Province, Cuba, after Francois
Duvalier has been overthrown.

Field Comment, Leon, a Cuban enigre, is a leader of the
Fuerzas Armadas Constitucionales de Cuba en el Exilio (FACCE,
Constitutional Armed Forces of Cuba in Exile).
t

14-00000

FRI doc
FeTune 65 (Miami)
30
Re Rolando arcadis Masferrer Rojas
Barzan #mm 2-156.

FRI cable
Re Julynis
1 July 65
Dominican Situation

FBI cable
15 June 65
Pe Dominican Situation

FBI doe
Torayos (Miami)
Re: Jorge & Valdes Amable
Bureau 105-84265

14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
SECRET
(WHEN MIELING
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Filbi 12. on back. Detach back flap and
APR 30 213 RED
ว
TO: ACTION BRANCH
FR.
4-03
If file no. and title shows are not proper, in-
sert proper file no. below and forward doc-
ument to RID/AN.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation.
FROM:

PROPER FILE NO.
RID/

TO ROOM DATE OFFICERS
NO RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
1. WH/C/S 3 MA465 CH COPY Detached
2.

CSDB-312/01143-65
amry 65
3. wokantno 13.0
4.
5.

MICROFILMED
MAY 3 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
シ
14.
15.
16.
17, EID/FI
THE HEART WEI
ABSTRACT
TRACE
REQUEST 201-42669
C
C
C
い

14-00000
D-14f (Rev. 10-23-641

MAR 10 1965
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Director
Central Estelligence Agency
Washington, D. C. 20505

ATTENTION: Deputy Director, Plans

For your information, I am enclosing communications which may be
of interest to you.

No further investigation is contemplated with regard to this matter.

You will be advised of the pertinent developments in comection
with this inquiry.

Please note change in caption of this case.

Status of case; Completed Incomplete

Very truly yours,

Hoover
John Edgar Soover
Directo
Eac. (Upon removal of classified enclosures, if any,
this transmittal form becomes UNCLASSIFIED.
شم تقاليد العالم

14-00000
ap 465
REF NO
REPORT COVER SHEET
SECRET
:
UFG-7077
FROM
DATE OF REPORT
JMWAVE
27 April 1965
REPORTING OFFICER
RD. NO.
Francis D. RACHFIELD
REPORTS OFFICER
PROJ.
Margaret R. NANKALL/ICP
APPROVING OFFICER
S'CE CR.
Andrew K. REUTEMAN
BACKGROUND DATA AND COMMENTS:
DYVOUR JMPALM

Source: UOAMBER-6 from Miguel TABERNO Blas from Solando
MASFERRER Rojas.

RID: Please index the following names.
SEXL CIT: Cutes

Aurea Esther POGGIO Aragon - DPOB: 11 March 1935 in
Cule, Habana, Involved with Rolando MASFERRER Rojas in the
storage of arms.
Sutj. og 201-42669
Rolando MASFERRER Rojas - 201-042669.

MICROFILMED
Group 1: Excluded from
Automatic Downgrading
MAY 3 1955
and Declassification
DOC. MICRO. SER.

INTRA-AGENCY DISTRIBUTION
EXTRA-AGENCY
4- iqs. Miami Reps:
1-00/C 1 - State
2- JMBARR 1 FBI
2-COS, Santo Domingo 1- Customs
2 - COS, Port-Au-Prince 1 - I&NS
2- PANAMA CITY (for CINCSO)

HOS NI COPY NO. OF ENCLOSURES NO. PAGES
1

GS COPY ATALS
APPR
Form
1467 wes
PREVIOUS 201.42669

SECRET
