14-00008
104-10290-10190
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

COR EACHS

PRIORITY MUNI
HOTLINE

ARLA FAME OSLO BRIK TESE TUNE MANI BENHEID PARI CAIR ACCA FROG DOOR ATHE JIDD LECP ENGO MEXI GEVA ANDA BAHI PRET SING OULT
SO BORR ABIMA AIOI MELA OKIE PRAN LAND VIEN DHAR KHAR HAGU NARO BAGH NEED TELA ETAL MOD KES SJAN ADDI PEALAND

WORLD BRIEF
(NONOWN IN SLANTS. REMAINING INFO RELEASABLE TO LIAISON.)

1. BERLIN: THE COMMUNISTS VIEW AS "OFFICIAL" THE TALKS BETWEEN
EAST AND WEST BERLIN NEGOTIATORS WHICH ACHIEVED THE AGREEMENT ON
CHRISTMAS PASSES AND CONSIDER THEM A BOOST TO SCOOR'S "FREE CITY"
PROPOSAL FOR WEST BERLIN. WILLY BRANDT ON THE OTHER HAND, REGARDS
THEM AS ONLY "TECHNICAL" AND AS NO SETBACK TO HIS STATURE IN WEST
GERMAN POLITICS.

2. YUGOSLAVIA: //TITO IS APPARENTLY NO LONGER DEEPLY INVOLVED IN
ADMINISTRATION OF YUGOSLAV AFFAIRS. HE HAS EXHIBITED, LACK OF
KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING OF A NUMBER OF FOREIGN POLICY ISSUES AND
HAS BEEN DIVESTING HIMSELF OF RESPONSIBILITIES. TWO RESPONSIBLE
OFFICIALS HAVE EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT HIS FACULTIES HAVE DIMMED.

3. NORTH VIETNAM: HEAVY PROPAGANDA EMPHASIS ON THE TRIO
ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL FRONT FOR THE LIBERATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM

14-00000
PAGE TWO

200ε€ 63.00 4/2
SIS CEN
90407

SUPPORTS A GROWING CONFIDENCE IN HANOI THAT INSURGENTS CAN SUSTAIN
AND IMPROVE THEIR POSITION DESPITE US BACKING OF THE SOUTH VIET-
NAMESE GOVERNMENT. (CONF)

4. CUBA: COASTAL DEFENSE CRUISE MISSILES NOW ARE PART OF THE (REPORTEDLY)
CUBAN AUXILLARY FORCES. CUBAN INVOLVE-
MENT IN THE SOVIET-ASSISTATED AIR DEFENSE SYSTEM IS ALSO INCREASING.
A SOVIET SO-1-CLASS SUBCHASER HAS ARRIVED IN CUBAN WATERS AND TWO
OTHERS ARE PROBABLY EN ROUTE.

5. USSR: KHRUSHCHEV'S LONG-RANGE PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF
THE SOVIET CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY RETRENCHMENT
IN OTHER PARTS OF THE ECONOMY DURING THE NEXT TWO YEARS. HOUSING,
CONSUMER SERVICES, AND SOME HEAVY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION ARE TO BE
AFFECTED, AND IT SEEMS LIKELY THAT THERE WILL BE A SLOWING IN THE
RATE AT WHICH MILITARY EXPENDITURES HAVE INCREASED SINCE 1960.

6. ITALY: DOUBTS ABOUT THE MORO GOVERNMENT'S VIABILITY HAVE
SUBSIDED SOMEWHAT AS A RESULT OF STRONG VOTE OF CONFIDENCE IT
RECEIVED ON 17 DEC. MORO'S AUTHORITY HAS BEEN STRENGTHENED BY HIS
CLEAR REFUSAL TO MAKE ANY REAL VOTE GETTING WAY POSSIBLE TO CLEAR ITALIAN

14-00000

(PAGE THREE)
90407
SUPPORT ON THE CONFIDENCE VOTE. MORO'S POSITION IS FIRMER BECAUSE
OF THIS AND BECAUSE OF THE VATICAN'S PRESSURE ON CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC
RIGHTWINGERS NOT TO BREAK PARTY UNITY. (CONF)

7. CUBA: THE CASTRO REGIME SEEMS INTENT ON CULTIVATING AFRICAN
COUNTRIES AS WAY OF LESSENING ITS ISOLATION FROM THE FREE WORLD. AN
EMBASSY IN TANGANYIKA INDICATES THIS. IN ADDITION, CUBA HAS, DURING
THE PAST MONTH, EXPANDED CONTACTS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES SOUTH OF THE
SAHARA. THERE IS ALSO REASON TO SUSPECT AFRICANS COMING TO CUBA ON
SCHOLARSHIPS ARE GETTING TRAINING IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TECHNIQUES.

8. UK://BRITISH FOREIGN POLICY UNDER THE DOUGLAS-HOME GOVERNMENT
INCREASINGLY FOCUSED ON KEEPING THE EAST-WEST DIALOGUE OPEN AND
IMPROVING RELATIONS WITH WEST GERMANY. BOTH SIR ALEX AND FOREIGN
SECRETARY BUTLER ESPECIALLY DETERMINED TO KEEP EXPLORING AREAS
POSSIBLE AGREEMENT WITH MOSCOW -- A POLICY WHICH PAID OFF HANDSOMELY
FOR CONSERVATIVES IN ELECTIONS OF 1955 AND 1959. MAIN OBJECTIVE
BUTLER'S RECENT VISIT, BONN WAS TO SOUND OUT GERMAN REACTION TO SUCH
BRITISH INITIATIVES.//

9. BRITISH GUIANA: JAGAN AND HIS LIEUTENANTS HAVE BEEN ATTACKING

RELEASING OFFICER: COORDINATING OFFICER:
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

14-00000

90407
(PAGE FOUR)

THE US AND UK IN INCREASINGLY VITRIOLIC TERMS. RIT PARTY IS
PARALYZED BY INTERNAL DIVISIONS AND IS UNDECIDED WHETHER TO CONTEST
THE FOR-INTRAGOVERNMENT ELECTIONS OR SEE THEM NEAR ON TRY TO BLOCK
THEM BY RESORTING TO VIOLENCE. OPPOSITION PARTIES, MEANWHILE HAVE
DONE LITTLE TO COOPERATE AGAINST JAGAN BEYOND REACHING A TENTATIVE
AGREEMENT NOT TO ATTACK EACH OTHER PUBLICLY.

10. FRANCE: PARIS IS TRYING TO PROMOTE TRADE WITH COMMUNIST
CHINA BY ENCOURAGING PRIVATE FIRMS TO DEVELOP NEW MARKETS THERE
THERE ARE BUILT IN LIMITATIONS TO THE EXTENT THAT FRENCH-CHINESE
TRADE CAN GROW. COMPLEMENTARY PRODUCTS ARE FEW, AND CREDIT PROBLEMS
CONTINUE TO LIMIT PURCHASES BY CHINESE WHO SEEN PRIMARILY INTERESTED
IN OBTAINING FRENCH TECHNICAL SKILLS. PARIS INTEREST IN CHINESE
TRADE AND EXPANDED CULTURAL CONTACTS WITH PEIPING HAVE STIMULATED
SPECULATION THAT SOME SORT OF DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION IS IN THE
OFFING. THIS IS STOUTLY DENIED AT ALL LEVELS OF FRENCH GOVERNMENT.

11. FINLAND: FOR THE SECOND TIME IN FOUR MONTHS FINLAND IS
GOING THROUGH A CABINET CRISIS BROUGHT ON BY DISAGREEMENT WITHIN THE
RULING COALITION OVER DOMESTIC LEGISLATION. A NON-POLITICAL GOVERN--
MENT.

RELEASING OFFICER: COORDINATING OFFICER:
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000

9040
(PAGE FIVE)

CIVIL SERVANTS, HEADED BY ECONOMIST REINO LEHTO, HAS BEEN
APPOINTED TO SERVE UNTIL THE PRESENT CONTROVERSY IS RESOLVED.
ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS SEEM LIMITED TO AGRARIAN MINORITY GOVERNMENT,
RECONSTITUTION OF AGRARIAN-DOMINATED COALITION OR AS A LAST RESORT
GENERAL ELECTIONS. WHATEVER THE OUTCOME, PRESIDENT KEKKONEN DESIRES
TO IMPROVE RELATIONS. (CONTINUEJ)
MOSCOW CAME OUT AGAIN DURING HIS TRIP TO THE
USSR.

12. SOUTH KOREA: PRESIDENT PAK CHONG-HUI'S DOMINATION OF THE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY INAUGURATED ON 17 DEC UNDER SOUTH KOREA'S NEW
CONSTITUTIONAL REGIME MAY TRANSFER POLITICAL INFIGHTING TO A NEW
ARENA. THE CONTROVERSIAL FORMER SECURITY CHIEF KIM CHONG-PIL CONTROLS
THE PARTY APPARATUS, AND HIS MANY ENEMIES ARE LIKELY TO TRY TO USE
THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESSES TO TRY TO WREST POWER FROM HIM. PRESIDENT
PAK STILL BACKS KIM, HOWEVER, AND THEY AND THEIR COHORTS WILL CONTINUE
TO MAKE THE GOVERNMENT'S MAJOR DECISIONS. THE CABINET HEADED BY
CHOE TU-SON APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN CHOSEN WITH A MIND TO BALANCING
FACTIONAL AND SECTIONAL INTERESTS AND FOR AN ABILITY TO CARRY OUT
RATHER THAN FORMULATE POLICY. WITH ELECTIONS OVER THE REGIME IS

RELEASING OFFICER: COORDINATING OFFICER:
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
FORM NO.

14-00000

TO: DIRECTOR
FILE INC FILE NO
ROUTINE

INFO
(PAGE SIX)
90407

LIKELY TO SPEED DECISIONS ON LONG OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS. A STAGNANT
ECONOMY BESET BY INFLATION IS THE MOST IMMEDIATE ONE, DISCONTENT WITH
HIGHER PRICES EXTENDS INTO THE ARMED FORCES. PARIS IS ALSO ANXIOUS TO
CONCLUDE THE 8-YEAR OLD NEGOTIATIONS FOR A NORMALIZATION OF RELATIONS
WITH JAPAN. (CONF)

13. TURKEY: THE THREE-WEEK OLD CABINET CRISIS APPEARS TO BE
APPROACHING A CLIMAX FOLLOWING THE FAILURE OF BOTH MAJOR PARTIES TO
BRING MINOR PARTIES INTO COALITION ARRANGEMENTS. ONLY A COALITION
BETWEEN THESE TWO, PRIME MINISTER INONU'S REPUBLICAN, PEOPLE'S PARTY
AND THE JUSTICE PARTY, OR A "NATIONAL COALITION" OF ALL POLITICAL
GROUPS, REMAINS TO BE TRIED. DESPITE THE DEEP DIFFERENCES, AN
ASSOCIATION BETWEEN THE TWO MAY PROVE FEASIBLE, FOR THE POLITICIANS
FEAR THAT EXTENDING THE CRISIS MUCH LONGER MIGHT PROVOKE MILITARY
INTERVENTION. (CONF)

14. CONGO: //THE ADOULA REGIME'S POSITION REMAINS PRECARIOUS.
(CHL)
ITS EXTREME LEFTIST OPPONENTS JOINED IN A "COMMITTEE OF NATIONAL
LIBERATION CONTINUE TO PLOT AGAINST IT FROM THEIR BRAZZAVILLE BASE
WHICH SEEMAT CRIPPLED BY LEOPOLDVILLE'S EXPLUSION OF THEIR SOVIET
RELEASING OFFICER: COORDINATING OFFICER:

14-00000

(PAGE SEVEN)
ASSY CONTACTS
THE FILES HAVE SENT MISSARIES ABROAD TO SEEN.
THEIR PLANS REPORTEDLY INCLUDE ASSASSINATION OF
PING AND ARMS
LEOPOLDVILLE LEADERS. "ANNIVASION OF THE CONGO" AND INSTIGATING
A COUP BY THE CONGO ARMY. THE WEAKNESS OF THE LEOPOLDVILLE REGIME,
ESPECIALLY THE QUESTIONABLE RELIABILITY OF GENERAL MOBUTU'S ARMY,
CLEARLY ENHANCES THE CHL PROSPECTS. LAST MONTH MOBUTU AND SURETE
CHIEF NENDARA, THE REGIME'S TWO KEYSTONES, WERE WAYLAYED BY SOLDIERS
AND NEARLY KILLED. STUDENT AGITATION MAY BECOME A FACTOR IN VIEW OF
IR CLOSE CONNECTIONS TO STUDENT GROUPS OF TWO HIGH OFFICIALS RECENTLY
OUSTED - FOREIGN MINISTER MABIKA-KALANDA AND LONDON CHARGER THOMAS
KANZA.
IN THE LATEST DELIBERATIONS TOWARD WRITING A CONSTITUTION
PROVINCIAL VOTES DESIRING A LOOSE ARRANGEMENT APPEAR STRONGER THAN
SUPPORTORS DESIDING FOR A STRONG CENTRAL GOVERNMENT. //

RIGHIT-WING AND NEUTRALIST MILITARY FORCES DISENGAGED
RECENT SUCCESSES IN CENTRAL AND NORTHERN LAOS. TANK CONCENTRATIONS SONE
INITIATIVES
A SLAMING SOVET AIMED AT GAIN

FERRICED LENG KROUT
COMMUNIST SUPPLIES
CONT
NTHAM COMMIE

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
OFFICE OF THE NO
IOR
INDO
(PAGE EIGHT)
90407
HAVE RECAPTURED THE KEY ROAD JUNCTION OF LAK SAC, HOWEVER, AND RETAIN
THE CAPABILITY TO MAKE SHARP COUNTERBOVES ELSEWHERE. THE CONTINUING
MILITARY NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN PATHET LAO AND NEUTRALIST FACTIONS HAVE
BEEN MARKED BY ACRIMONIOUS EXCHANGES, BUT THE PATHET LAO HAVE
EXPRESSED NEW INTEREST IN ARRANGING A MEETING BETWEEN THEIR CHIEF
PARNCE SOUPHANOUVONG AND PREMIER SOUVANNA PHOUMAS TO ARRANGE FOR
FULL PATHET LAO PARTICIPATION IN THE COALITION GOVERNMENT. COUP RUMORS,
MOSTLY CENTERING ON PLANS BY RIGHT-WING MILITARY ELEMENTS ALLIED WITH
THE SANANIKONE CLAN, CONTINUE TO CIRCULATE IN VIENTIANE.
