104-10529-10329 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000
ORIG: UNIT FS/CIOP
5601
EXT
INDEX
NO INDEX
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963 FILE IN CS FILE NO.201-736701

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR
ROUTING
2
3
4
5
6

CONE
C/FE6
ROUTINE

INFO: ADOP CI/CT, C/FI, C/WH-5, D/OS 2, RF, IVR

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXI
INFO
CITE DIR: 75338

KAPOK LCHARVEST
REF MEXI 6488 (IN 38148)
1. LIARO SZU CHEN 2733 1835 2052, 201-736731 301; L
LANGUAG
BACKGROUND:
1923 BA TSINGHUA UNIV
24 BA, NO UNIV PRES
28 MA TAOWARD
28-31 PRO NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV; SENIOR LECTURER

LEASING OFFICER
32-33 PROF. NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV; DEPUTY NATIONAL COUNCIL
RESEARCH
41
ACADEMIC SINICA
46
PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV, PROFESSOR
47
HONORARY PRO YALE UNIV YEAR
51 MEMEB OF FOREIG UNIVE
61 HEAD OF DEPT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTUR

LEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
ORIG : BECKY FRANK
UNIT: FB/CIOP
EXT: 5661
DATE: 12 October 1963

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN C.S FILE NO.
TO: MEXICO CERI

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO

2. RE: SRI

INFO

56
APR 59
OCT 62
SEP 63

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING
4
5
6
PACE TWO

CITE DIR: 75338

ASSUC, DETONIZED CHEN AND
ASSOCIATION, STUDENT OF CHEN AND RENAME.
DEPUTY SECRETARY, COMMUNIST YOUTH LEAGUE
CHENGTU

MINISTER FOREIGN COMMERCE; THIRD NATIONAL
COMMITTEE CPPCC
VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY.
DEPUTY LEADER OF CPK MISSION TO SUPPORT INTER-
FOLLOWING EXCERPTS FROM LIANGS RESUME TO THE

HPC, JULY 13 1957 RETELED "WHY I LOVE MY PARTY".
AND MENTIONS

HES PAST ANXIETY AND PERPLEX

TIME HE HAD USED OUT-DATED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES TO TRACH TEACH T'S

TESTEUCTORS AND STUDENTS OF THE TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY BECAUSE MR.

LEASING OFFICER
RELEASING OFFICE
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
(CONTINUED)

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

14-00000
ORIG: BECKY FRANK
UNIT IF/CIOP
EXT: 5661
DATE 12 OCTOBER 1962

TO MEXICO CLY

FROM DIRECTOR.
CON:
INFO:

TO DMEDIATE MEXI
INFO

BY THE STATEMENT THAT EVERYTHING OF THE PARTY WAS COOD.
HAD WRITTEN ARTICLES,

SUAL THR
FOR ERFUTATION.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
PACE THREE
CITE DIR

ROUTING
4
5
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
ER SAID THAT AFTER HE
HAD
SAID
X DISCOVERED THAT HE WAS A KATIONS TARGET
SATD
WAS SURE I WAS BETEG SUBJECTED TO
DID FOT
THAT OF A CHILD BEING

PARTY A3 MUCH AS I HAD THATH
WITH
AFTER CAL

PRODIGAL

PARTY

KTEV
BECAUES ATE
COORDINATING
(CONTINUED)
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No

14-00000
ORIG ROCKY FRANK
UNETTE/CIOP
EXT 5661:
DATE 12 OCTOBER 1963

TO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
4
5
6
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FROM DIPECIOR

CONT

INFO
PAGE FOUR
TO DOIRDLAER MEXI
INFO
CITE DIR
75338
OTPLATE 1 (THESE) WAS DEFERRED TO UNIV YALE O
OP THERE IS CHANCE
HE WOULD CANDIDA
DASS MANG CO
MOULD
ERIDGE TO LIANS
HE HAS
OFFICER
FLATTER
HEAVY FARSONAL CONSIT

SAFSGURS

SO STATION SHOULD BE PREPARED UNTIL FUITEER SEKPS CAN BE TAKEN.

OTPLATE 1 ARRIVING MEKI 12 OCTOBER 2165 VIA BASTER
AIR LINES FLITE 305
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ESUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATIO
OFFICEO
Ceo, No

14-00000
XI PRATA
2/CIOP
EXT 5661
DATE 12 OCTOBER 1963

TO DMEDIATE MEXI

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBORLT
ROUTING
4
5
6
INDEX
INFO
DEFERRED
BOUT!
PAGE FT.E
CITL GIR
WILL MRAR RED WHITE BLUE TIE IF CONTACT MISSED STPLATE 1 TO PROCEED

CITY AND CONTACT MARINE GUARD AT EMBASSY ASKTEO FOR SAESEED.
SINCE ED OPPORTUNITY DO BO HERE.

SSAGE

AUTHORIZED
CHARGE LCHARVEST COA

DC/WILD
FI Staff Lloyd George (by phone)
DC/PED/03 Steve Kubn (by phone
Staff
by phone
DEFE(C)
C/WE/3 J. Written (by phone)

WILSON CO
CPE

RAPORD HERBERT
THAN THE
PROHIBITED.
Copy
