                                         104-10171-10229 
                                               2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

                                                                                                     PRIORITY
                                                                                                     100-4000-00
Chief of Station, Mexico

Chief, WH
Letters for discussion with Anthony R. FECHAY                                       1
on Home of AMCIZA to Mexico
Memo
FOR FECHAY
The following is in response to your request for a summary of points that need 
to be clarified in discussions between you and Station Mexico on the forthcoming
HOME of AMCIOA to Mexico City.

1. Political

     A. The requirement that the "overt" office will consist of only three
        officials, the others being "covert", and the statement that "the presence
        of Loros 1049 in Mexico should not become known and never be admitted".
        Cr. WHI-598, 24 July. (Comment: It would appear impossible to comply
        with this requirement if there is to be an overt office and any publicity
        in Mexico or elsewhere, since the identities and whereabouts of
        all AMCIGAR members will be a matter of public knowledge.)

     B. The statement in para 3, JETI-54 that the Mexican Government
        will not be friendly unless AMCIGAR activities and "plotting to overthrow
        Cuban Government" remain covert. (Comments Since there is to be an overt
        office and propaganda department and AMCIGAR DAO beam, and will have to, and 
        continues to be, described as a group organized for the purpose of removing
        the CASTRO Government, their necessary propaganda activities towards CASTRO
        and cannot be covert. Could it be modified to apply only to agreement that
        no military invasion would be launched from Mexico?)

     C. Clarification of the words "disavow" and "established in the follow-
        ing statement by LIEK: "...may have to disavow ARCP and the effort should
        it be established AMCIRA is in contact with CANO in Mexico". (Comment: Since
        there will be overt AMCIGAR activities, the term disavow is ambiguous.
        What will constitute not being established that ANCIRA is in contact with 
        CASTRO? Certainly we can expect the charge will be made many times by the
        Soviet & Cubans.)

     D. Possibility of LIEK showing meeting to briefed Mexican
        Cuban subversive activities-Mexico (para 5, KWI-553) before arrival AMCIGAR,
        which would undoubtedly be of assistance in obtaining popular and official
        sympathy for AMCIGAR activities.

2. Propaganda
   
   We plan to have AMCIGAR propaganda department in Mexico, but it will be
   impossible for them to operate effectively, or indeed at all, if ARCP in the
   continues to insist on AMCIGAR activities in Mexico "remaining covert and not
   becoming public or press issue". We feel a tremendous publicity drive should
   be made simultaneously with arrival in Mexico at the time of arrival of CUBA Desk
   in Station Mexico: sweats will be needed to a large extent in improving the
   public and political climate to allow ARCP people to work effectively.

   Also, it is hoped that Station Mexico will receive instructions that ARCP Desk will
   arrive in Mexico soon to produce a big, big noise, which will ostensibly be
   independent, but actually will be policy. They also will make additional,
   numerous tape recordings for broadcasting over Latin-America.
---
                                                                                                                               4-00000
Bo-885
3. PM
Requirements set forth DIR-40133, dated 15 July. If permission could
be obtained for use tole territory, even if only for 72 hours prior and
during the COIN strike operation, the project would be advanced materially.

A. We concur requirement that WICKER contact with Station and with
ANCIGAR clandestine. Food Station's assistance in working out mechanics
of these contacts.

24B. Station's advice and assistance needed on following: (1) provision
of unilateral telephone tape/wire installation (operational data for ANCIGAR
consumption) (2) protection (unilateral sabotage of) of ANCIGAR leaders
against enemy agent executive actions) (3) Entilateral agent surveillance
to check out security and loyalty of overt/covert AMCIGAR members) (4) collection
of secure safe sites for housing of WHI agents, for overt office, and
for covert meeting sites.

C. Elexican Government capabilities in terms of protection of overt
ANCIGAR members against enemy agent executive action operations.

D. Can Station communication facilities (pouch and cable) be used for
secure AMRASP communications between members in Mexico and those in PIPRIDES
and elsewhere!

Distribution:                                                              OLIVER G. GALDOMES
3 - Mexico
3 August 1960

1- Mexico Desk
1- WH/A/Chrono
---
