104-10418-10104 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS
---|---|---|---
1 | C1/09 | | 
2 | Room 2D-39 | |
3 | | |
4 | attu Mr. Russ Holmes | |
5 | | |
6 | | |

ACTION | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY
---|---|---
APPROVAL | DISPATCH | RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT | FILE | RETURN
CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION | SIGNATURE

Remarks:

per our

Veleon

on to: illem Otmans

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE
EIBOLIN (Carol Saunders) 29004

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions (40)

13-00000
7-71 MFG. 7/76
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER. TOTAL COPIES 13 / RUN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT Z
ACTION UNIT RF. FILE. VR.
1
elop 11 2
ACTION # INFO 3
T 348531 E1A195 PAGE 01
TOR:170925Z NOV 77

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH.
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITI
DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
4
5
6
IN 468074
20-6
(HAGU) 33140

SECRET 170900Z NOV 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
20-6
CITE THE HAGUE) 33140

TO: WASHINGTON,
FOR: EUR/BNL/N INFO: CI/OG, SA/DO/0, LA/C/EU
SUBJECT: WNINTEL RNMUM RYBAT REAM (SYMPATHIZER) MHCOLOR
20-6
REFS: A. THE HAGUE) 33877 (459495)
B. WASHINGTON 125435

1. WE DID NOT DISCUSS INFO CONTAINED REF A WITH

CONSULATE FOR TWO REASONS: INFO RECEIVED FROM (SYMPATHIZERS)

WELL AFTER SUBJECT'S INTENDED DEPARTURE DATE, AND IF

SUBJECT NEEDED VISIT CONSULATE FOR VISA HE ALREADY WOULD

HAVE DONE SO, SECOND, DUE TO SENSITIVITY OF SOURCE

OF INFO, WE PREFERRED NOT PROVIDE IT AFTER THE FACT TO

ROTTERDAM CONSULATE, WHICH LACKS CLASSIFIED COMMO AND

STORAGE FACILITIES.

2. WILL BE INTERESTED IN ANY CONGRESSIONAL REACTIONS

TO, OR DOMESTIC COVERAGE OF, OLTMANS VISIT. NOTHING

NOTED HERE IN LOCAL PRESS.

3. FILE: 201-0155221. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET
