14-00000
                                              SECRET

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:      LOPEZ, HENRYP
                            201-253203
                            VOL. II
INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE        DATE
RECEIVED   RETURNED        REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)          SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
1956 24       1956 24             Eng

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
DISPATCH
TO:        Chief, WHD                                      CLASSIFICATION
INFO:                                                      DESENSITIZE
FROM:      Chief of Station, Mexico City          [ ]
SUBJECT:   General Operational                                       PROCESSING ACTION
           O - Specific Heary Lopez
                                                         XX     MARKED FOR INDEXING
ACTION REQUIRED -REFERENCES                                       NO INDEXING REQUIRED
                                                               ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
REFERENCE: MEXI-2755, dated 11 March 1965.                     CAN JUDGE INDEXING
                                                               MICROFILM

Forwarded herewith is the coverage of Henry Lopes' telephone
for the period: 17 February 1962 to 26 March 1962.

Swar R. Patalion
for
Willard. C. CURTIS
The folliing action is
S
Contrafl

Je lin Blake Smith
R.C. 1803   COM/L
on, cito
recons and coordinato
if appropriate.

AN AIC
Distribution:            WH/L
WHD w/att h/w
3- Files                  CAB
IN
PS
BY
CS COPY
DOPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER                        DATE
HMA-25595                                        17 March 1965
CLASIFICATION
DESENSIUIZ
SACRET

14-00000
Se Analyn 9/11/71
HMMA- 25595          17 March 1965             201-253203

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
Chief of Station, Moxico City

Chief, Benefits and Services Division/OP
HELUTOAOR
Hoopitalization Clain - Zhard G. FICEPOHOL
[ ]  297-5791, dated 9/22/63.
[ ]  man-6030, dated 12/9/65

1. Please infore subject aployes that a check in the count
of $642.93 ses forartel to DrEARI ca 4 Zevenber 1965. This excount
repressats all benefite payable under subject'e Contact kapitaliration
msurance policy for the claim to submitted with referénce (a).
2. If subject has any further questions regarding transaittal of
hin osttioment, bo should contact DIPARH.

James K. Herinet
JARS K. HIGIT

Distributious
3, Cus-isxies City

1500-11493  Ele:
Ceresiran
CONFIDENTIAL

OP/BSD/IB Fichalaaki             1le

stoa
1D          AC/D
1wa        Un/Pers.

14-00000

ORIG:  HENRY F. CONNOR                    MESSAGE FORM
UNIT:      WH/BAF                       TOTAL COPIES:
EXT:      7763                             [ ] RETURN TO BRANCH [ ] FILE RHA
DATE:    15 DEC 65                        [ ] INDEX                  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
                                            [ ] NO INDEX             12.  ROUTING
                                            [ ] FILE IN CS FILE NO. 1         5
                                                                  2         6
TO : MEXICO CITY                           SECRET                   3         7
FROM: DIRECTOR                                                      4        8

CONF
WH 8                  INFO: VR FILE [ ] RID COPY        OF 2   15 DEC 65 20 326

TO
MEXI            INFO                          CITE DIR
REFERENCE: A. DIR 47834                    65500
        B.  MFXI T/A 64-66.

SINCE TICIBORN PAID BY STATION, LOAN SHOULD BE CARRIED BY
STATION AND $125 PAYROLL DEDUCTION APPLIED.

ACCORDINGLY, HDQRS T/A'ING LOẠN TO STATION AND RETURNING
DOCUMENTATION.
END OF MESSAGE
  Salley.
   Tukton
2!  ful

WILLIAM V. BROE                                 
  CAMI                                       
  RELEASING OFFICZA                             COORDINATING OFFI
SECRET                            
  REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPPICH IS PROMIDITEO.  ROBERT D. CARTER
                                                /CAM/B&F
                                                AUTHENTICATINO
                                                OFFICER

14-00000
DISPATCH                            PROCESSING ACTION
Chief, M Division
Chief of Station, Mexico City              MARKED POR INDEXING
ST: SUMINISTRATIVE/PERSCHNE                [ ] NG INDEXING REQUIRED
ON
SECRET                                    [ ] ONLY QUALIFIED DESK.
                                                CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ON
Vert and Covert 1964 Income Tax Forms of Howard C. TICHSORS                MICROFILM
OVINQUIRED NEFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: Fer Parapraph 1

REFERENCE: MEXI 5550"

1. Please query Jerone H. EMISIS in regard to the location of the
1964 overt and covert tax returma and payment check in the acount of
$1774.00 of Edward G. TICHEORN and advise.

2. TICHEGEN states that he passed the only the copies of each return and
the check to FALSIS on 29 April 1965, Aurther stating that BALSIS told him he
would completely audit both returns to assure their accuracy in resari to
miteratical computations and application of tax liability. BALSIS was to
return a copy of the overt return for TICHEORI's retention.
3. A thorough search of Station files falled to uncover the subject
taz returns and check or any transmittal record of returns or payment.

4. Since TICHBOR will be extremely hard pressed to duplicate the returns
without a copy of the overt return, the location of the returns is very important.

Distribution:
3-
WILIARD C. CURTIS

CATE
14 Doebar 1965
1917-6033
CLASS CATION
SECRET

14-00000
R-DEP TO FRE CO
CLASSIFIED HERON
FILE DISO EST TO BARCO
BATTERY 310-
Action
SECRET
FILE IN CS NO
APP OCCE COPT.
TOTAL COP188
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

APPLOCE COPT: [ ]
RID COFY  [ ]
FIR OF2, Cess

SECRET 0819452

DIR CITE MEXI 5558       DEC 6510658
REF: DIR 62414

1. 1964 COVERT TAX RETURNS FOR BENADUN, LIMOTOR 19 (BARBARA
C. HUFIG), PINE INCH, SANDAMANIE BEING SENT BY HEMT 6219 IN 19
DEC POUCH. NOT POUCHED EARLIER AS OVERLOOKED IN STATION ADMIN
FILES.

2. RETURN FOR CAZAZZUS SENT HMMT 5399 APR 23 (JOINT WITH
DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASS). RETURN FOR LIFUED JP, NOW RITA N.
BLAZIK, SENT HMMT 5908, 28 OCT 65.

3. LIKUFF I SUBMITTED RETURN THROUGH OVERT CHANNELS,
SIGNED COPY BEING POUCHED HOS.

4. VILL REPORT ON TICHBORN SEPARATELY.
SECRET    19
   RETURNS 26018  H ......5-36
CFN 5552 62414 1964 BENADUM LIMOTOR 19 ЗАРВАРА С HUF IS FINE INCH
SANDAMANIE HMMT 6018 10 NOT POUCHED CAZAZZUS HART 5399 APA 23
DOUGLAS J FEINGLASS LIFUED 30 RITA N BLAZIK HMMT 5988 28 05
LINDSF HOS
BT-

SECRET
261253203.

14-00000

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
FOPAL COife 6

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
SECRET
REFFOOLS'TION PROHIBITED
X-REF TO FILE NO.
6
FILE RIDO RET. TO DRAVEN O
7
DESTROY SIG.
PEASONTUNIT NOTIFIED 0
8
FROM
ADVANCE COPY
MEHTICO CITY
UNIT
TIME
ACTION
WHY [ ]
RID COPY [ ]
FILE X

SECRET 0801082
و . 5

DIR INFO LAPA ZITE MEXI 5541.
KICAPER LICOLIC
EF DIR 59669
8 DEC 05 109900

1. SINCE TICHBORN MAY WELL BE NEEDED IN LAPA NEXT SPRING,
STATION AND THOMAS W. LUND (IDEN) HAVE FURTHER DISCUSSED COVER
POSSIB IL ITIES WITH HIM. WHILE NO CONCRETE PROPOSAL FORTH COMING,
HAVE CONCLUDED THAT PART OF PROBLEM STEMS FROM HIS NEVER HAVING
BEEN IN BOLIVIA, AND STATION LAPA NOT HAVING READING OF HIM AND
THIS CAPABILITIES.
:
2. SUGGEST ERIEF VISIT TICHBORN TO LAPA UNDER TOURIST COVER TO
CONSULT WITH LAPA OFFICERS AND SURVEY COVER POSSIBIL IT IES.
THIS MONTH BEST TIME FROM MEXI STANDPOINT; NEXT ISSUE LIREAM
PUBLICATION HAS JUST GONE TO PRINTERS AND HE RELATIVELY
FREE TRAVEL. TICHBORN FULLY COOPERATIVE, ANXIOUS TO SERVE IF
NEEDED.
AIS SEARCHING FOR

5070 BOLIVI RIODICEM EST
59659 TICHBORN LAPA THOMAS W. LUND NO CONCRETE NOT HAVING LAPA
MONTH BEST TIME LIREAM

SECRET
Tichborn 201 file
21-753203
ORIG:
14-00000
J. Fisher
2/1
4506
DATE: 29 Νον. 65
MESSAGE FORM
TUFAL COPIES 13
[ ] INDEX SECRET
[ ] NO INDEX
ROUTINO
[ ] FILE IN CE FILE NO. 5
6
20EC 65 22 062

TO
Mexico City
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH8
S