104-10224-10004

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:  _Kimsey, Herman E._

INCLUSIVE DATES: 11/16/49-11/12/65
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CP
ROOM: SE13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE  | DATE   | REVIEWED BY       | SIGNATURE OF
RECEIVED | RETURNED| (PRINT NAME)      | REVIEWING OFFICIAL
-------|---------|--------------------|------------------------
       |          |                    |
       |          |                    |
       |          |                    |
       |          |                    |
       |          |                    |
       |          |                    |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
1. SERIAL NO. 1555
3. NATURE OF ACTION
TERMINATION
E. FUNDS

KIMSEY, HERMAN E.
4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUIRED
SEPT
1962
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDP/TSD

Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Branch
Analysis and Research Section

12. POSITION NUMBER
15011
DOCUMEST TECH CH
SECRET

2. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE

A. CLEARANCE AUTHORITY (Completad by
796.10044
3225-1050-1000
Office of Personnel
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C.
11. PROVISIONING NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
0659
14. LAST DATE (GS, etc.) OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 14. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
GS
1397.01 13 (1)  11415

15. REMARKS
Continuous Agency service from 23 March 1953 to 20 September 1962.
**FederalRemarks**:  Terminated in accordance with provisions of CIA Regulation
20-27, Separation of Surplus Personnel, pursuant to authority of Director of Central
Intelligence contained in Section 102 (c) of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended.
This termination does not affect your right to seek or accept employment in any other
department or agency of the U.S. Government if you are declared eligible for such
employment by the U.S. Civil Service Commission.

Authorized Maximum Separation Compensation in accordance with the provisions of
CIA Regulation 20-32, Separation Compensation.

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED
James R. Shields
SIGNATURE OF APPROVING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED

1152
SECRET

DATE PREPARED
Mo. Da Yr.
05 09 60
1. Serial No.
2. Name (L-F-M)
KIMSEY, Herman E.
A. CSC Halmi 8. CSC Or Other Legal Authority 10. Appml. Affidavit. 11. FEGLI 12.
01. A V. 4. V
Поле- Cede. Cede. Poze Coda
Do Yo He 353616
PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
14. Organizational Designations 15. Location Of Official Station Station Code
DDP/TSS
Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Div. Washington, D.C.
Analysis and Research Branch
16. Dept. Field 17. Position Title 19. Serv. 20. Occup. Series
IO TECH AIDS 92 GS 0136,63
Cade Vola.
21. Grade & Step 22. Salary Or Rata 24. Dete Of Grade 25. PSI OVE 23. Appropriation Number
3
133 10,370 D
ACTION
Mu Yo Mo Yo 0225-1005-1000
010157//HICG 61
27. Nature Of Action 29. Type Of Empleyee 30. Separaties Dete
Ma Da
Code Ye Reassign REGULAR
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
Code 32. Location Of Official Station 34. Servi Coo.
31. Organizational Designations
DDP/TSD
Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Branch
Analysis and Research Section
25. Valed Dept, 34. Position Title 35. Position No 36.5212. Occup. Sortos
Dept. Code
Valid DOCUMENT TECH-CH 658 GS 1397.01
38. Grado & Step 30. Salary Or Rate 41. Cate Of Grade 41. Appropriation Number
44. Remarks 151152013 PARAN
45. Requested By (Namo And Title) 46. Approved By (Name And Tilla)
Source Of Request
For Additional laformation Call (Name & Telephone)
Emanuele Fontana ext. 3031

Clearances - Clearances
4. Cheats Board G. Far. Come C. Clasificat
N11520 via
Dati By Persennal
SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
FIL NUMBERED
REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A through D except 6B and 7 unless otherwise instructed.
If applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse.

1. NAME
MR. HERMAN E. KIIMSEY
3. NATURE OF ACTION REQUESTED
A PERSONNEL (Spacity whether appointment, promotion, separation, etc.)
PROMOTION

B. POSITION (Spocity whether establish, change grade of title, atc)

2. DATE OF BIRTH
11 Dec 1916

4. DATE OF REQUEST
24 Jan 57

7. CS OR OTHER
LEGAL AUTHORITY
FROM
TO
10 TECH AIDS BY 92
GS-0136.63-12 $7735 per annura
DDP/TSS
Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Division
Analysis and Research Branch
Washington, DC.
S. SERVICE, GRADE, AND 10 TECH AIDS BY 92
GRADE BY A 92
SALARY
(10) NUMBER
S
GS-0136.63-13 $8790 per annurn
DDP/TSS
Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Division
Analysis and Research Branch
Washington, D.C.
12 ORGANIZATIONAL.
DESIGNATIONS
11. HEADQUARTERS
DEPARTMENTAL 12 FIELD GR DEPARTMENTAL
REQUESTED BY (Name and title) APPROVED BY
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL (Name and telephone extenuion)
Ext. 31031
DAVE RICHARD

JASPER L'OLESTEAD
Catser Management Officer, TSS
14 CLASSIFICATION ACTION
LOCAL RESIDENCE
15 SLABRALE
(CATES CAUF!
STATE
REQUEST FORM
TELE
569
INFORMATION CARD

The following items on this card for which any change occurs in the personnel's name
status must be completed within five days in which: (1) enters on duty, (2) terminates
or (3) is transferred to another component of this agency, (4) is to be absent from
office for a long period of time, (5) changes marital status.

FILL IN HERE
NAME:   Kimsey, Herman Edward
AIR GROU TSS Central

OFFICE Foa: (sig, Branch, Etc)
NEW ACCRESS:
PRESENT ADDRESS: 1723 "S" St, N.W.

PHONE TELEPHONE NO: National 8-8786

MARITAL STATUS: Single
IS THIS PERSONNEL'S NAME TO BE INCLUDED IN THE TELEPHONE DIRECTORY

Relumn 1,31-7
Name

SERIAL
NO.

Kame

Organization
Office
Official
Telephone
Number

Home
Number
Date

FACELET
WED
PIECE DATE DELETED
Name: Mr. Herman E, Kimsey
Address: Washington, D.C.
To: AS IO TECH AIDS
Age: GF 40 years on 24 January 1957
Doc: TTS Primary: candia
Primary Grade GS-12 Designtor DT
Proposed Grade GS-13
Continuous Training
Present TO SLOT
NuMBER & GRADE
BY 92
Proposed To SLOT
Number & Grade
BY 92 GS-13
EducatION:
Two years coll. - No degree
Language:
Japanese slight
EXPERIENCE Prior To CIA (Each S191 0881):
1941-43-Military Service
44-45-McCloud River Lbr. Co., Brakeman, $1.10 p/h
44-48-U.S. Forest Service, Camp Administrator
48-51-Military Service

COMMENCATIONS MATS INGIANG PROV1000-
LOG TUD PROVATED

Appt. 23 Mar 1953-Tech Projects Off, GS-9

Reassign-13 Sept 1953, Technologist, TSS/GARD, GS-9
Promot-9 May 1954-Technologist, TSS/GARD, GS-11
Reass-27 Feb 1955-10 Tech Aids, TSS/GARD, GS-11
Promot-19 Jun 1955-10 Tech Aids, TSS/GARD, GS-12
JOSEPH F. MARZEN
Acting Chief, TSS/GARD

CHARLES J. RYAN
AC/TSS/AUTH

SEE ATTACHED MEMORANDUM

G-3467

10 January 1956
MEMORANDUM FOR :	Chief, TSS Administrative Staff
SUBJECT :	Request for Promotion - Herman E, Kimsey

1. It is requested that Herman E. Kimsey be promoted from
GS-12 to GS-13. Mr. Kimsey has been in grade for over 18 months.
Mr. Kimsey has been Chief of the A&R Section of GARD for over
22 months. During this time he has exhibited ability in conducting
and managing the activities of his branch. Mr. Kimsey is a
Questioned Documents Analyst and is well-fitted to perform the
duties required of the A&R Branch.

2. It is recommended that Mr. Kimscy be promoted to
GS-13.
JOSEPH F. MARZEN
Acting Chief, TSS/GARD

Concurs-by Ryan
Distribution:
1	 Addressee
1	 TSS/SRB
1	 TSS/GARD/file
1	 TSS/GARD/Chrono

SECRET
(When Filled in)
DD/P
PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

NAME: KIMSEY, Berman E.	AGE: 39 years	DATE: 27 Key 1955

STATION Washington, D.C.
AND DUTIES: To Tech. Aids
DD/P UNIT: TSS	PRIMARY CAREER
DESIGNATION: DT

PRESENT GRADE: GS-11
PROPOSED GRADE: GS-12
CIA TRAINING:

PRESENT T/O SLOT
NUMBER AND GRADE:
FY 92
GS-11
PROPOSED T/O SLOT BY 92
NUMBER AND GRADE: GS-12
EDUCATION: Two years college - No degree
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY:
Japanese alight

ASSESSED:	DATE:	TYPE OF POSITION: RESULTS:

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO CIA (excluding S80-083):
43 - Military Service
45-Mc Cloud River Ler. Co., Brakeman, $1.10 p/h
46-48 - U.S. Forest Service, Car" Administertor
51- Military Service

SUMMARY OF CIA-980-033 ASSIGNMENTS INCLUDING PREVIOUS GRADES AND DATES:

Appt 23 Mar 1953, Tech Projects Off. GS-9
Reassignment 13 Sept 1953, Techncicaia, , GARD G2-9
Promotio 9 May 1954 - Technologist, GARD 62-11
Reassion 27 Feb 55 10 Tech Aids, G5 00-11

RECOMMENDED BY:
CHARLES YOEL, JR.
Chief, TSS/CARB
CONCURRENCES:

RECOMMENDATION OF CAREER SERVICE BOARD: Mr. Kimsey has been acting Chief of the
Analysis and Research Branch of for wef 12 months and during this time has exhibited
ability in conducting and directing he activities of this French. Sr. Kimsex is a
professional document analyst ard in very wall fitted to perforrheduties ropumited
of the Analysis and Research Pranch. toto is in its cofections as Quality Con rol for
GARD document production and as Landwriting, Typewriter and Falsification analyst.
Request that in tauw of the foregoing, "r. Kimsey be promoted to $20.

FORM NO.
JAN 94 59-44
SECRET

SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
VOUCHERED
REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A through D except 68 and 7 unless otherwise instructed.
If applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse.
L NAME (MMMr One riven name, initial(a), and surname)
10: DATE OF ST
Dec 1916
MUSEY
MATURE ON REQUESTED:
A PLASENNER Spocity whether appointment, promotion, separation, etc.)
& EFFECTIVE DATE
A PROPUSED:
A. PUSTIONS, wily whether establish, change grade or title, etc.)
CS OR OTHER
LEGAL AUTHOR
PROM TO TECH AIDS BY 92-11
GS-01.36.03-11 $5940 per annum
DDF/Technical Services Staff
Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Division
Analysis and Research Branch
Washington, D.C.

A POSITION TITLE AND
NUMBER
& SERVICE, GRADE, AND
SALARY

11 ORGANIZATIOHAL
DESIGNATIONS
11. HEADQUARTERS
DEPARTMENTAL
12 FIELD OR DEPARTMENTAL
A REMARKS (a corerso il nousenry)
19 JUN 1955
BY 92
CS-0136.63-12 $7040 per annum
Der/Technical Services Staff
Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Division
Analysis and Research Branch
Washington, il.C.
8. REQUESTED BY (Name and fils)
6. FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL (Name and telephone extension)
13 VEILRAN FRITERENCE
OTHER SPE
13 VIIAN PREFE
APPROVED ISS CAREER SERVICE PAVEL
D. REQUEST APPROVED DY
Carey Manarement Officer, TSS
14 POSITION CLAFICATION ACTION
SEX RACE
NONE WWHTEN
194
15. 16 112. APPROPRIATION
5-2515-20
18 SUMECI 10 C. S
RETIREMENT ACT
(くり)

THE 7. DATE OF APICINE
MENT AFFIDAVITS
(ACCESSIONS ONLY)
20. LEGAL RESIDENCE
CLAIMED
STATE:
PROVED

22. CLEARANCES

SLCRLT
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
VOUCHERED
REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A. through D except 68 and 7 unless otherwise instructed.
If applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse.

MR. BERAN E. RASEI
2. DATE OF BIRTH
il Dec. 1916

A. PERSONNEL (Specify whether appointment, promotion, separation, etc.)
REASSIGNMENT

3 PEQUEST
- PosiLian.
SECRET

A. PROM:

TO.

TECHNOLOGIST
BY 93

12345.21 45940 per annum

T1

Du
D. REMARKS

C
46

021531

5. FOR ALLAM CAL

Torn Lunes
x 3071

D. REQUEST APPROVED BY

harion D. San

M
MATE

4

APROPRIATICE
2
4

R10

DOD
T21

22. CLEARANCE
GLL POS CONTROL
4
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

57

192

F
RESUME
Horan Blward Kimsey
3700 Hassachusetts Avenue, N. W.
Washington 16, D. C. 20016
Telephone Floral 8-6400

I Personal
Age  Married - No Children
II Education
a. Grammar School - Oregon & California
b. Junior High School - Oregon & California
c. High School - Oregon & California
d. College Level GED (USAFI) 1948
III Special School and Training Courses
a. 3. Forest Service School for Fire Control and Prevention, Shasta
National Forcat, California; 1939 and again in 1940.
b-U. S. Army Chemical Warfare School for Instructors, Camp Claiborne,
Louisiana, 1942
cU, C. Forest Cervice School for Fire Control & Prevention, Shasta National
Forest, California, 1946.
AU. S. Forest School for Timber Disease Control (Blister Rust), Klamath
National Forcet, California, 1946
e-U. 3. Army Counter Intelligence Corp School for Special Agents, Fort Holabird,
Maryland, 1946 and 19:7.
f Instructor Guidance Course, U. S. CIC School, Port Holabird, Maryland, 1947
and again in 1952.

IV Empirical Background
1962 to Present - ABBOciated as a technical consultent with Security Associates,
Inc., Washington, D. C., specializing in commercial and industrial security.

1953 to 1962 Intelligence with U. S. Government, Central Intelligence Agency,
GS-13, $11,415. As Chief of a small branch of igaly specialized analysts, I
exercised a wide variety of talents and was reeynsible for the following:
the direction and administration of the branch operations; determined the course
of action for further research effort within the branch; monitored and super-
vised a program of special personnel assessment; evaluated technical analyses
and their relationship to specific cases; advised and consulted with members of
Senior Staff components of CIA; delivered numerous technical briefings to both
U. S. and foreign police and intelligence services; initiated and maintained
projects carried out by private organizations such as universities, private
consultants, and private research corporations. During the above period, I
trained and briefed numerous others engaged in police and intelligence work.
I also initiated and developed four technical systems currently in operation.
on a world-wide basis within CIA and wrote niers articles for an intelli-
gence periodical. In January 1962, CLA presented me with one of the largest
individual Monetary Suggestion Avarda ever given by that Agency.

Herman Edward Kimsey
3700 Massachusetts Avenue, N. W.
Washington 16, D. C. 20016
Telephone Floral 8-6400

Attachment I
1962 to Fresent Associated as a technical consultant with Security Associates,
Inc., Washington, D. C., specializing in commercial and industrial security.

1953 to 1962 Intelligence with U. S. Government, Central Intelligence Agency,
GS-13, $11,415. As Chief of a small branch of highly specialized analysts, I
exercised a wide variety of talents and was responsible for the following:
the direction and administration of the branch operations; determined the course
of action for further research effort within the branch; monitored and super-
vised a program of special personnel assessment; evaluated technical analyses
and their relationship to specific cases; advised and consulted with members of
Senior Staff components of CIA; delivered numerous technical briefings to both
U. S. and foreign police and intelligence services; initiated and maintained
projects carried out by private organizations such as universities, private
consultants, and private rescarch corporations. During the above period, I
trained and briefed numerous others engaged in police and intelligence work.
I also initiated and developed four technical systems currently in operation
on a world-wide basis within CIA and wrote numerous articles for an intelli-
gence periodical. In January 1962, CIA presentedme with one of the largest
individual Monetary Suggestion Awards ever given by that Agency.

Herman Edward Kimsey December 11, 1916
Questioned Document Analyst (Continued)

b. Participated in establishing document analysis facilities in foreign governments
and present plans call for continuation of this TDY consulting and advisory
work.

Per request from Training, periodically briefs Foreign Intelligence Services and
Agency personnel. These briefings cover general capabilities of the Section and
are intended to inform the student of the question document problem.

II SUPERVISION RECEIVED:

The Section Chief receives technical requests directly from the customers
and advises them and the Branch Chief on the technical problems, personnel, and
other requirements for making determinations. Staff and Branch Chiefs establish
guides on administrative matters. Review of accomplishments can only be made in
the light of the customers application of evaluation results. Decisions required
as a result of Section work are usually "Eyes Only" for customers application in
offices of Senior Staffs of the major components in the Agency. The recommen-
dations for participation in setting technical standards for mechanical and per-
sonnel identification methods or in financing such activity would be evaluated on
the basis of the incumbent's evaluation of potential benefits to Agency technical
services to intelligence efforts.

III QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED:

Qualifications for this position will be written in the preliminary Quali-
fication Standatds developed for the GS-1397.01, Document Analyst title, up-
graded by Civil Service Commission Hearing, to GS-14, 1958.

Herman Edward Kinsey	December 11, 1916
I. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

The analysis and Research Section is responsible for advisory, develop-
mental and service work in the field of questioned Document Analysis in support of
overt and covert activities of the Agency. This includes technical testing and re-
search into handwriting and document evaluation or authentication.

The Section Chief directs the assigments of projects, studies developments
in scientific fields supporting authentication work, advises Agency officials on the
current and long range capabilitics in authentication or evaluation of documents and
prepares recommendations for direction of the program.

Specifically:.

1. The Section Chief, under the policy direction of Staff Chief, and
administratively reporting to Branch Chief, provides administrative and technical
supervision to Questioned Document Analysts in the Cection and continually insures
that their technical competence is maintained. The Section Chief reviews requests
for analysis of documents and contents, establishes priorities for use of Section
Personnel and suggests available external facilities for analysis or research.

2. Studies developments in Analysis and evaluation of documents and their
contents as done by other Federal Agencies (721, Post Office, Treasury, Insurance
Corporations, Private Practitioners in the Questioned Document Analysis field and
Clinical Psychologists. Initiated inter-agency collaboration on use of technical
facilities and indices of characteristics of paper and writing materials.

3. Makes review of recommendations of Document Analysts, Consultants, and
Contract Exployees engaged in analytical and projective studies, determines courses
of action for additional research, confera with case officers and program leaders on
the avaliability of additional data, time lirité, operational potentials, etc., to
develop additional facts of problems to be employed or to make final recommendations
on the contents, validity, possible origination and processing of documente subject
to study.

4.	a. As advisor and consultant to major component program officials,
provides authoritative material on the potential of identification involving docu-
ments and other physical items, makes periodic evaluations of case history recorda
and provides other technical documentation service as may be required.

(Continued on Page 2)

1946 to 1953 - Worked as a Special Agent (MO-1301) in the Army's Counter
Intelligence Corp in the grade of Master Sargeant. cuties consisted of
investigating crimes or security nature; member of a embat CIC team in Korea;
two assignmento as an instructor at the basic CIC School; enlisted Chief of
the Technical Laboratory at the CIC Center, and enlisted Chief of Special Pro-
Jecto Technical Laberstery (CIC), Far East Command, During this period, I
co-authored two text books for the CIC school and revrete one other. Further,
I experienced over 2,000 lecture hours as an instructer in the basic CIC school
and lived and worked three years in two foreign countries.

1945 to 1946 -Held the position of Camp Superintendent or a 100 man forest
cump engaged in timer disease control, U. S. Forest Service, California.

1941 to 1943 - Military Service, U. S. Army, Intelligence NCO, MOS 631, Combat
Intelligence.

1939 to 1940 - Forest Quard, U. S. Forest Service, California
1935 to 1939	Lumber Industry, California

Additional Informatica upon request.

Herman Blward Kimsey
3770 Massachusetts Avenue, N. W.
Washington 16, D. C. 20016
Telephone Federal 8-6400

RESUME

I Personal
Age 46 - Married lio Children

II Education
a. Grammar School - Oregon & California
b. Junior High School - Oregon & California
c. High School - Oregon & California
d College Level GED (USAFI) 1948
III Special School and Training Courses
a. U. S. Forest Service School for Fire Control and Prevention, Shasta
National Forest, California; 1939 and again in 1940.
b-U. S. Army Chemical Warfare School for Instructors, Camp Claiborne,
Louisiana, 1942
c.U, C. Forest Cervice School for Fire Control & Prevention, Shasta National
Forest, California, 1946.
dU. S. Forest School for Timber Disease Control (Blister Rust), Klamath
National Forcet, California, 1946
e-U. 3. Army Counter Intelligence Corp School for Special Agents, Fort Holabird,
Maryland, 1946 and 19:7.
f Instructor Guidance Course, U. S. CIC School, Port Holabird, Maryland, 1947
and again in 1952.
IV Empirical Background
1962 to Present - ABBOciated as a technical consultent with Security Associates,
Inc., Washington, D. C., specializing in commercial and industrial security.

1953 to 1962 Intelligence with U. S. Government, Central Intelligence Agency,
GS-13, $11,415. As Chief of a small branch of igaly specialized analysts, I
exerciced a wide variety of talents and was reeynsible for the following:
the direction and administration of the branch operations; determined the course
of action for further research effort within the branch; monitored and super-
vised a program of special personnel assessment; evaluated technical analyses
and their relationship to specific cases; advised and consulted with members of
Senior Staff components of CIA; delivered numerous technical briefings to both
U. S. and foreign police and intelligence services; initiated and maintained
projects carried out by private organizations such as universities, private
consultants, and private research corporations. During the above period, I
trained and briefed numerous others engaged in police and intelligence work.
I also initiated and developed four technical systems currently in operation.
on a world-wide basis within CIA and wrote niers articles for an intelli-
gence periodical. In January 1962, CLA presented me with one of the largest
individual Monetary Suggestion Avarda ever given by that Agency.

I also initiated and developed four technical systems currently in opera-
tion on a world-wide basis within CIA and wrote numerous articles for an
intelligence periodical. In January 1962, CIA presented me with one of
the largest individual Monetary Suggestion Awards ever given by that Agency.

From 1946 to 1953, I worked as a Special Agent (MOS-1301) in the Army's
Counter Intelligence Corp in the grade of Master/Sorgeant. My duties
consisted of investigating crimes of security nature; member of a combat
CIC team in Korea; two assignments as an instructor at the basic CIC School;
enlisted Chief of the Technical Laboratory at the CIC Center, and enlisted
Chief of Special Projects Technical Laboratory (CIC), Far East Command.
During this period, I co-authored two textbooks for the CIC School and
rewrote one other. Further, I experienced over 2,000 lecture hours as an
instructor in the basic CIC School and lived and worked three years in
two foreign countries.

1945-1946 I held the position of Camp Superintendent of a 100-man forest
camp engaged in timber disease control, U.3. Forest Service, California.
1941-1943 Military Service, U.S. Army, Intelligence NCO, HOS 631, Combat
Intelligence.
1939-1940 Forest Guard, U.S, Forest Service, California
1935-1939 Lumber Industry, California
Additional information upon request

I Personal
Age 40 - Married No Children
Herman Edvard Kitney
37 Massachusetts Avenue, N. W.
Washington 16, D. C. 20016
Telephone Fideral 8-6400
RESTGE

II Education
*
a Granmar School - Oregon California
b Junior High School -Oregon & Californda
C Hig School - Oregon & California
dCollege Level GED (USAP1) 1948
III Special schools and Training Courses
U. S. Forest Service School for Fire Control and Prevention, Shasta,
National Forest, California; 1930 and again in 1940.
1947.5. Army chemical tarfare School for Instructors, Camp Claiborne,
Louisiana, 1942.
d-1. 5. Forest service School for Firs Control 6 Prevention, Shasta
Mational Forest, Califarmia, 1946.
69. Boroat school for Timber Disease Control ister Hust) klanath
National forest, california, 1946.
6- U.S. Army Counter Intelligence Corp school for 3poetal gents, ort
Holabird, Maryland, 1946 4.1947.
g- Instructor Guidance Course, W. 5. Army CIC School, Port olalbird,
Waryland 107 and again in 1952.

IV Empirical Jackground
Free 1962 to Present, I have been asarulated, as technical consultam,
th Security Associate, the, ashington, , C. specializing in commercial asd
industrial security,

Free 1955 to 1962, I was an Intelligenne cer ith U. S. overnment,
al Intelligance Agency (Anmul Salay = 511 410 C0-13). As chief of a smil
branch at highly specialized analysts, I exercise a wide variety of talents and was
responsatile for the dirtion and administration of the branch operations, keter-
mind the course of setion for further research ort thin the branch monitoned
and supervised a progran of special personnal aseasant, evaluated tekmcal
lyses and their relatianship to specifie cases, dvised and consulted ath
members of Senior staf componente of 01 d: delivered meroun teclatal brietings
Lo buth . and frign police and Inteliganse 8vies intlated at mintated
Jation th Other . s. Governmant component aed ateed
pejec carried out ty private organtaations sual unities private
consultants, and perate rech
the aove peried 1 traised
and tristed the pollcs and intelligence agonises of than 5 foreign countries
el actualy
and 4 fariga cetrias. I also Intitated and
devlopa fear techdeal yaterm currently ta operation or a warld-wide basis the
Cl4 and rate numerous atteles for in intelligen periodseal, In January 1962,
GIA prente me ath one of the largest individual onetary gestin awards per

* 1946 0 1953. 3 worked as & Special ngent (05-1301) the Axy's
counter intelligace Corps the grade of aster Sargent, ly duties ted of
investigatIng cries of surity nature serter of contat 10 in Roree,
an signte an instructor at the bate 040 Scheet listed Chief of
the Techedel Labratury the 10 enter, and enlisted hiet of Spatial ro-
Jeste Toal Laboratory 110), for at command, During this period,
to-authered to tout ook for the Cic achos and rat one other. Partner,
1 experienced
lectre hour te te trator to the bate cle
44 tood and worked three years to form entries.
- Held the pitian of Care superintendent forut
43 tal
1930-21 Military Service, t. 5. Ay Intelligen
*1939-1940 Forest ward, t. Forest service, California,
60
toformation upon ret
77,

E-C-B-E-P
3-02
4-0.128
MITE
E
.
Title, grade & Salary office & Batension BOB IND
Reference Data 15 1
* *
**
710178634
Dato of Detaile of Qat Placent (Including Cover & Security Cata)
Interview
17
111
*** ***1*10**** 111*
* *** *3*****4*4 4**** *1*** ***.
790.1
7.
17115827549930204, N4923"
+77741711999 74993
S-E-C-R-E-Y Out FLAINT INTERVIEW RECO
*
(200 Deversd)
1.909.15%967%
3-176
5-E-0-8-2-7
HAME S+E+C+R_E_3
*(15"40"44047
20/43
* 406697529517153+
67896951
++9909999999
34+55*
*
C4
(822 P

42465.44
(***)
"86

1.644. *""7:450
"
2.00757016
E
==End of OCR for page 101==