14-00000
104-10176-10015 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Subject has been identified as having remained in Korea since 28 January 1960, presumably in the above position.

PERSONS WITH WHOM GEORGI PERISTEROPOULOS IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT:

1. Kenneth C. MILLER, Chase Manhattan Bank, Tokyo, Japan. Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

2. Al (Alphonse) FIGOD (name of firm illegible but probably L. RONDON and Company of Tokyo, Japan). Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

The KANTO DIRECTORY for Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan for 1955 on page 325 lists 28, and are. Alphonse (Phonse) FIGOD, with residence address of 67 Late-machi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, with business address for Alphonse FIGOD as c/o L. RONDON and Company, Ltd. (Japan), Tokyo. Tel. 27-3524-4

Alphonse FIGOD was identified in 1949 as a French citizen, resident in Shanghai, China at 75 Route Frelupt, who was serving as a cut-out conveying French Intelligence Requirements to a double agent in Shanghai in 1949.

3. Gregory TOPOUZ, of the PONTE Company, Tokyo, Japan. Listed by Subject as a personal reference in 1957.

4. Antonious (Anthony) E. PAPPALOPOULOS, Greek Consul, Yoko- hama, Japan, listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

5. Valentine HAHN aka Valentin Vasiliyevich ZHAN aka Fon-Shin HAN, former Soviet Agent, who is elsewhere identified.

6. Emanuel Abraham USTROVSKY, who in 1953 was the manager of the Tokyo Branch of Sendovich Brothers, Incorporated, by which organization Subject was then employed.

7. William Hamilton MARTIN, as reported in cover dispatch.

14-00000

8. Officials of the Claggett-Nolan Company, Incorporated, Tokyo, Japan, whose identities have not been determined on basis of reported direct contact with Subject, but who are presumed to include Richard William Nolan CHILD and Mortimer Claggett COCKE, Junior, the principal officers.

14-00000
SECRET
HX-3
18 November 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: National Security Agency

ATTENTION: Mr. S. Wesley Reynolds

SUBJECT: Berson Ferguson MITCHELL William Hamilton MARTIN, Espionage - M

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1. Reference is made to information orally furnished by your office to representatives of this Agency to the effect that William Hamilton MARTIN at one time mentioned the fact that prior to his resignation from his civilian contract employment with the Department of the Army in Tokyo, Japan and prior to his actual return to the United States in late August or early September 1955, he had been offered a job as a shoe salesman by one George PARIS of Tokyo, Japan.

2. A check of the indices of this Agency reveals that William MARTIN'S Tokyo acquaintance, who offered him a job as a "shoe salesman", and whom MARTIN called "George PARIS" is undoubtedly identical with George S. PERISTEROPOULOS aka SELIM aka FULAKA ska PERISTEELOPULOS aka PEROS aka George S. Perlls, aka George PARIS, born 8 January 1909 at Constantinople, Turkey, but of Greek nationality since birth. According to information provided ab initio to representatives of this Agency by a Japanese Liaison Service, George PERISTEROPOULOS in about 1946 abbreviated his name to George PARIS. The liaison service added that he operated the Nichols Rag Company in Tientsin and Shanghai, China, as his own business" between 1927 and 1941, at which time the firm was closed down because of the war. Between 1942 and 1945 he was under house arrest, or "confined to his home in Shanghai, but significantly was not interned by the Japanese. From 1946 to 1950 he operated the George PARIS COMPANY in Shanghai. He claimed to have been unemployed between 1950 and 1952, at which time he emigrated to Tokyo, Japan, from Shanghai, obtaining employment in Tokyo with the firm of SANDOVICH

SECRET

yso

14-00000

Sandovich INCORPORATED and in 1951 he became the manager of the Tokyo branch of this firm. In 1954 he established his own firm under the name of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, which firm appears in the trade indices published for Japan, and is reflected in attachment 1. In 1955 George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS was appointed to the position of honorary Deputy Greek Consul in Yokohama, in which position he was the deputy to Antonios E. PAPPADOPOULOS aka Anthony E. PAPPADOPOULOS, the Honorary Green Consul in Yokohama. PERISTEROPOULOS appears to have continued in this diplomatic post until sometime in mid 1959, when an official Royal Hellenic diplomatic mission to Japan was accredited to the current government of Japan, and the functions of the Yokohama Consular Office were taken over from the two honorary consuls.

3. Liaison reported that on 28 January 1960 George PERISTEROPOULOS departed Tokyo for Seoul, Korea
and that he had not returned to Japan as of 30 August 1960. Through a sensitive source in Seoul, with whom representatives of this Agency are in operational contact, and who is believed to be reliable, it has been ascertained that George PARIS left Haneda Airport in Tokyo on 28 January 1960 aboard regular CAT scheduled flight to Seoul, Korea, where he was to assume the position of resident representative in Seoul, Korea, of the firm of CLAGGETT-NOLAN COMPANY, INCORPORATED, an export-import firm, with offices in the Hotel Bando, in Seoul. This firm is listed in the Foreign Directory for Seoul as having headquarters in the United States, located at 24 California Street, San Francisco, California. PARIS replaced a British national named William James Pali-R, as representative of the CLAGGETT-NOLAN Company in Korea.

4. On basis of an official inquiry by a representative of our Agency to the United States Embassy in Seoul, it was learned that the above firm of CLAGGETT-NOLAN Company enjoys a good reputation locally and deals in the sale of electrical and mechanical machinery and equipment. It was also learned that the capital stock of the firm is controlled by one Mortimer C. COOKE, Junior, and a Richard W. CHILD, both of whom are United States citizens. The indices of this Agency reveal that Mortimer C. COOKE, Junior, of the above- mentioned firm is identical with Mortimer Claggett COOKE, Junior, co- owner with Richard William Nolan Child of the firm of BALCOM TRADING COMPANY INCORPORATED, which has offices in Tokyo, Japan, and is incorporated under the laws of Panama. Additional

SECRET

14-00000

Information concerning the above firms and regarding Richard William Nolan CHILD and Mortimer Claggett Cooke, Jr. will be furnished separately.

5. The activities and contacts of George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS in Japan and Korea are currently being investigated by this Agency.

6. George S. PERISTEROPOULOS aka PARIS, identified above, and known to William H. MARTIN as "George PARIS" is identical with the individual whom Valentine HAHN aka Valentin Vasiliyevich HAHN aka Fon-shin HAHN, admitted former (1947) Soviet agent, identi- fied as "George PARIS, a Greek businessman in Tokyo", and as one of HAHN's close contacts and friends in Japan. When interviewed by representatives of this Agency in 1958, Valentine HAHN advised that the above "George PARIS was the person who introduced HAHN to a Tokyo nightclub, located off the Ginza, the name of which HAHN gave only as "The Tomorrow is Too Late Club". HAHN claimed that this was an exact and direct translation into English of the actual Japanese name, which, however, he never mentioned during the interview. Date of HAHN's visit to this "club" in company of George PERIS aka PARIS, is estimated to have been somewhere between 1954 and 1957. HAHN stated that at the "Tomorrow Is Too Late Club" he was intro- duced to a Japanese hostess by the name of Noriko MATSUZAKAYA alias Noriko AWAJI with whom HAHN subsequently enjoyed dates. It is believed that Noriko MATSUZAKAYA AWAJI became the mistress of Valentine HAHN for an undetermined period of time following his original introduction to her at the above "club" while in the company of George PERISTEROPCULAS aka PERIS aka PARIS. HAHN also advised that following his original introduction to this establishment by PERIS, HAHN had taken a number of unnamed married American nationals, who were stationed in Tokyo, to the same club, where such persons had also been introduced to and had enjoyed dates with the hostesses. At this time, there is no information to indicate that either William Hamilton MARTIN or Berson Ferguson MITCHELL were among the United States nationals HAHN referred to as having been taken to the aforementioned club by HAHN. Neither is there any information currently available to reflect that William Hamilton MARTIN was known to Valentine HAHN through their mutual acquaint- anceship with George PERSTERUPCULLS.

7. As attachment herewith, we are forwarding a chronologically

SECRET

14-00000

organized biographical outline of all information on George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS, developed to date. Attachment to this communication indicates that PARIS has been or may still be a contact of Emanuel Abraham USTROVSKY, suspect Soviet Agent, who is the Tokyo Branch manager of the firm of SANDOVICH BROTHERS INCORPORATED, which firm has long been suspected of being a front or cover organization for Soviet intelligence operations. Attention is invited specifically to the fact that Attachment reflects that the 1954 Japan Directory of Foreign Firms lists E. WTROVSKY as Tokyo representative of this firm, which has offices at #61 - Tamura-cho, 4-chome, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo, and telephone lines: 43-1809, 43-4369, 43-4287, whereas in 1958 subject is officially listed as George PERIS, of PERIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISE, located at 14-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Telephones: 43-1809 and 43-4287, reflecting that he shared telephone numbers with SANDOVICH BROTHERS, and presumably with Emanuel A. USTROVSKY. It is suggested that the Department of the Army, Chief of Staff, G-2, intelligence, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation may have additional information on George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PARIS and associates.

8. No additional information, to supplement that which is reported in paragraph 6 above, identifiable with Noriko MATSUZAKAYA AWAJI, could be located in the indices of this Agency.

9. With reference to the "Tomorrow is Too Late Club", men- tioned in paragraph 5 above, to which Valentine HAHN claims to have been taken by George PARIS, an exact and direct re-translation of the club name into Japanese from the English as given by HAHN, would read "Asu de wa Ososugiru". It is noted that the Tokyo Telephone Directory for 1957 contains a listing for an establishment of this name, as follows: ASU DE WA OSOSUGIRU, located at Chuo-ku, Ginza, 8-Chome, 3 Banchi, Tokyo-to, Telephone Nos.: 57-0945, 57-6363, 57-6928. A reliable source, who is familiar with the city of Tokyo, advised in October 1960, that as of 1959 this establishment was still operating at the listed location, and that it is a coffee-house rather than a nightclub in the western sense, although alcoholic beverages are available for consumption on the premises by the patrons. The same source also advised that the above coffee-house employs Japanese hostesses", as is customary in such establishments in Japan, and that such females might be dated under the circum- stances indicated by Valentine HAHN. However, it should be noted

SECRET

14-00000

that the same source also indicated that the coffee-house known as ASU DE WA OSOSUGIRU to which he was referring, which is identical with the establishment of this name listed in the 1957 Tokyo Directory, is the type of place which is not frequented in general by American nationals stationed in or visiting Tokyo as tourists; rather it caters mainly to indigenous patrons and their guests, or to foreign residents of Tokyo who have been introduced to the place and the management by indigenous patrons. Those foreigners then become regular patrons after becoming known to the management. Inasmuch so the above described ASU DE WA OSOSUGIRU coffee-house generally fits the description of the "Tomorrow is Too Late Club" mentioned by Valentine HAHN as a "nightclub" to which he was taken by George PERIS, it is suggested that they are one and the same establishments.

10. In light of the mutual acquaintanceship of William H. MARTIN and Valentine HAHN with George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS, and, in turn, PERIS' role vis-a-vis HAHN's introduction to the ASU DE WA OSOSUGIRU coffee-house, it is suggested that PARIS may have played a similar role in terms of introducing William MARTIN to Japanese night-life. This may have eventually led to MARTIN's contact and involvement with Japanese individuals, who introduced him to or indulged his masochistic interests.

11. Additional information on the individuals mentioned above will be forwarded as developed. It is requested that addressees for- ward to this Agency any information on George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS, his contacts and activities, and on the other individuals mentioned herein.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

1 Attachment:

as stated

oct Federal Bureau of Investigation

Department of the Army, ACSI

DDP/FI/D/AP:mem

Orig & 2- addressee

1- 100-6-124/3 (ZRGRACE)
1- 201-284530
1- 201-282337 (MARTIN)
2- OS/SRS
1- chrono

SECRET

14-00000

ATTACHMENT

SUBJECT: Summary of Information on George PERISTEROPOULOS
aka George PERIS, aka George D.
PERISTEROPOULOU, aka George
FERISTALLEROPOLU, aka
George PARIS.

Born 2 January 1909 at Constantinople, Turkey

Nationality at birth: Greek

Present Nationality: Greek

Parents Names not reflected in the record, both deceased. Father died China, Siberia, USSR, date unknown. Mother died in Shanghai, China, date unknown.

Marital Status Widower since about 1956; marital dates since that date unknown.

Name of deceased Spouse: Aurelie PERISTEROPOULOS ase CZERWINSKA, Polish
national. Married at Shanghai, China. Date of marriage not reflected in the record. Died in Tokyo, Japan circa 1956.

Relations In April 1948, under maiden name, listed as registered member of the Polish Citizens' Association of New Poles in Shanghai, which organization is loyal to the Polish Government in Warsaw.

Mother-in-law: Mrs. Bronislawa CZERNINSKA, Polish National, 1951 resident Shanghai, China; as of 1953 ap- plicant for a United States Immigrant Visa filed in Tokyo, Japan.

SECRET

1400000

Sister-in-law: Mrs. Irene ADAMSKY, ase CZERWINSKA
1953 resident 1306 A Massachusetts Avenue, San Bernar- dino, California.

Residences 1909-1915: Constantinople, Turkey
1915-1917: illegible, but probably Odessa, Russia
1917-1923: Chita, Siberia, USSR
1923-1924: Harbin, China
1924-1937: Tientsin, China
1937-1952: Shanghai, China
1952-1957: Tokyo, Japan

April 1953: 3-Chome, Komagome Hanchodo, Ota-ku,
Tokyo, Japan

1958: #64, 3-Chome, Lennochofu, Ota-kn,
Tokyo. Home telephone: 72-3444

1959: #64, 3-Chome, Lennochofu, Ota-kn,
Tokyo. Telephone: 59-4686

1-28 January Tokyo, Japan
1960:

Since 28 Janu- Seoul, Korea
ary 1960:

Employment 1927-1935: Operated "own business", Nichols Rag
Records Company in Tientsin, China.

1935-1937: Unknown

1937-1941: Operated "own business", Nichols Rag
Company, Shanghai, China. Closed in
1941 because of war.

1942-1945: Confined to own home in Shanghai,
China, but not interned by Japanese
occupation authorities.

1946-1950: Operated firm George Peris Company,
Shanghai, China,

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

1950-1953: Unemployed (presumably in Shanghai)

1951-1952: Subject and wife from Shanghai, China applied for visas to enter Japan from China. Subject claimed he held Greek Passport A #6/50-1, issued by the Greek Consulate in Shanghai on 20 September 1950 and valid until 9 September 1951.

Wife held Greek Passport A #2/58-1, issued Shanghai, 15 June 1951, valid until June 14, 1952.

Subject indicated he was engaged in "dan finance and smart business, deal- ing in raw wool.

1952: First entered Japan at Yokohama on 2 February 1952 with status of semi- permanent resident. Stated on arrival at Yokohama to Japanese Police that he had come to Japan "to seek peace and freedom".

Employed by Tokyo Branch of Sando- vich Brothers, Incorporated, through 1952.

Other indices consulted reflect that Subject in 1952 operated the firm of George PERIS in Tokyo, Japan during 1952.

1953: Subject was elevated from the position of "employee" to that of Manager of the Tokyo Branch of Sandovich Brothers in 1953.

Also, Subject was reported still operat- ing the George PERIS Company in Tokyo in 1953.

SECRET
NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

14-00000

NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL
SECRET

1954: Subject reportedly terminated his employment with Sondovich Brothers sometime during 1954, exact date not known, and established his own firm under the name of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES.

The 1954 Japan Directory of Foreign Firms lists SANDOVICH BROTHERS as a United States firm, with offices at 41 - Tamura-cho, 4-chome, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan. Telephones: 43-2609, 43-4369, 43-4287, and lists E. OSTROVSKY as the Tokyo Representa- tive.

E. OSTROVSKY, of course, is Emanuel Abraham OSTROVSKY, who is known to have been the Tokyo Branch Manager of the above firm, who resided in 1954 at 19 Konncho-kita, Minato-ku, Tokyo. Home telephone: 43-6773.

1955: Subject continued in his position as President of PERIS ASSOCIATED ENTER- PRISES.

During 1955, exact date not specified, Subject was named to the position of Honorary Deputy Greek Consul in Yokohama, in which position he became the deputy to Antonios E. PAPPADOPO- ULOS, the Honorary Royal Greek Consul in Yokohama.

It is presumed that the Consulate in 1955 was probably located at the same address given in the December 1957 Gaimusho "Consular List", which reports the following information:

SECRET
NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

14-00000

"Royal Greek Honorary Consulate in Yokohama, Sutherland Building, No. 75, Yamashita-cho, Naka-ku, Tel. 8-1713.

Mr. Antonios PAPPADOPOULOS, Honorary Consul

Mr. George PERISTEROPOULOS, Honorary Deputy Consul."

1956: Continued as President of PERIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, Tokyo. Continued as Honorary Greek Deputy Consul, Yokohama.

1957: Continued as President of PERIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, Tokyo. Continued as Honorary Greek Deputy Consul, Yokohama.

1958: Continued as President of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES; Listed in directories as George PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, located at 44-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Minato- ku, Tokyo, Tel. 43-1809 and 43-4287. (1958 Japan Times Directory)

A separate listing is also carried in the name of George PERISTEROPOULOS with office telephone listed as: Yokohama 8-1713, which is the same telephone number given in the December 1957 Con- sular List for the Royal Greek Honorary Consulate in Yokohama, above.

1959: Subject continued as president of PERIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, and is listed as George PARIS, in connection with this firm, whose offices according

14-00000

1960:
to the 1959 Japan Times Directory are located at #4-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo. Telephone 59-1606.

It should be noted that this is the same address listed for Subject and the PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISE in the preceding year, but there is a change in the telephone exchange.

On 28 January 1960, Subject departed by air from Haneda Airport, Tokyo, destination Unknown.

From a source believed to be reliable that Subject was going to Korea as the Seoul Resident Representative of the American-owned firm of Claggett-Nolan Company, Inc., which has its home office at 25 California Street in San Francisco, California, and maintains an office in Seoul in the Bando Hotel. Subject allegedly replaced one William James Palin, a British National, in this post. The capital stock of Claggett-Nolan Company, Inc. is controlled by Mortimer Claggett Cooke, Junior, and Richard William Nolan CHILD, both American citizens, who are also the principal controlling stockholders and directors of the BALCOM TRADING COMPANY, which has its main offices in the Fukoku Building, 2-chome Uchisaiwai-cho, 1-Chome, Chiyoda-kum, Tokyo, Japan, but also has branches in Seoul and Pusan, Korea. BALCOM TRADING COMPANY also controls another subsidiary firm known as Allied Distributors, Incorporated, with which firm Thomas Robert KIRK aka Boris YASHKOV has been affiliated for a number of years.

14-00000

Subject has been identified as having remained in Korea since 28 January 1960, presumably in the above position.

PERSONS WITH WHOM GEORGI PERISTEROPOULOS IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT:

1. Kenneth C. MILLER, Chase Manhattan Bank, Tokyo, Japan. Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

2. Al (Alphonse) FIGOD (name of firm illegible but probably L. RONDON and Company of Tokyo, Japan). Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

The KANTO DIRECTORY for Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan for 1955 on page 325 lists 28, and are. Alphonse (Phonse) FIGOD, with residence address of 67 Late-machi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, with business address for Alphonse FIGOD as c/o L. RONDON and Company, Ltd. (Japan), Tokyo. Tel. 27-3524-4

Alphonse FIGOD was identified in 1949 as a French citizen, resident in Shanghai, China at 75 Route Frelupt, who was serving as a cut-out conveying French Intelligence Requirements to a double agent in Shanghai in 1949.

3. Gregory TOPOUZ, of the PONTE Company, Tokyo, Japan. Listed by Subject as a personal reference in 1957.

4. Antonious (Anthony) E. PAPPALOPOULOS, Greek Consul, Yoko- hama, Japan, listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

5. Valentine HAHN aka Valentin Vasiliyevich ZHAN aka Fon-Shin HAN, former Soviet Agent, who is elsewhere identified.

6. Emanuel Abraham USTROVSKY, who in 1953 was the manager of the Tokyo Branch of Sendovich Brothers, Incorporated, by which organization Subject was then employed.

7. William Hamilton MARTIN, as reported in cover dispatch.
