CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TRANSMITTAL
OF
IDCS INFORMATION REPORT

ORIG D. Browner, S
UNIT WH/SA/ Reports
EXT. 5547 
DATE 20 
3
CONFIRMATION COPIES 
INFORMATION COPIES
CI/CPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, IT/ 15 ,4, CA 2, CA/PES, DD
DATE DISTRIBUTED
23 July 1964
EVALUATION
REQUESTED
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
DISSEMINATION

WHA A4
SHASAP4
WP/2/9
ARMY
NAVY
23/9/6
AIR
PROCESSING ACTION

ROUTING
J 23 21 19:54
TDCS-3

PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
BASED ON (FLD, APT., PROJ.)
153-03
ASSER
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
W. Pereshaw
RELEASING OFFICER
C/I/SA/Intel
FORM 13-2-44-4
30.028
CETE MEDITERRANEAN ER
104-10180-10044
14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING
10
Chief of Station, Mexico City 
INFO.
FROM
Chief, WILD
SUBJECT
PBRUMEN/AMC/Operational; Shipment of explosives to Mexico
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action: FYI

Following is a translation of a report submitted by AMMUG-1
concerning a shipment of explosives to Mexico:

"The Communist Party of El Salvador tad asked me
to send them twenty-five one-quarter pound packages of
gelatin explosives. They requested that the explosives
be sent to Mexico wherd they would recove them and take
them to El Salvador.

'In view of the request, I spoke Manuel PINEIRO
regarding the shipment itself, as well as the amount.
PINEIRO answered by telling me to do so.
Rusing my trip to Mexico (March 1994, I spoke with
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez regarding this swet and he
toid it that there wo need of my sending the explosives
to Mexico as this type of explosive was available in the
Embassy. I then told RODRIGUEZ that I would answer the
request from El Salvador.

Upon returning to Cuba I spoke with PINEIRO, who
told me not to send the explosives as the orders now were
to send nothing but money due to the recent exposure of
the arms shipment to Venezuela."

Distribution:
2. COS, Mexico City
Chester D. DAISOL.D
(

P7365

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
-12916
CLASSIFICA: ON
HOS PLE NUMBER
201-74965!
14-00000
5
4
3
2
1.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contates information afarting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Love Tide
18. C.C. 800
of revelation of which in any manner to an unauthortord person ta prohibited by law.
and the
SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
COUNTRY Cuba
SUBJECT Esther GAVILAN Rosales

DATE OF
INFO.
1964
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
Washington, D. C.
September 1964
REPORT NO.
CS CI-316/00714-64

DATE DISTR
8 September 1964

NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES CSCI-3/782, 061
29 June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service
until April 1664.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information
provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the
records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals
mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Esther GAVILAN Rosales is the wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ
Lopez, the Subject of the above referenced report.

Headquarters Comment

1. Official travel manifests reveal that Esther GAVILAN Rosales arrived
in Mexico City from Cuba on 15 December 1961 and carried a diplomatic
passport; departed Mexico City for Cuba on 27 April 1962, carrying
Cuban diplomatic passport number D/61-538; and arrived in Mexico
from Habana on 8 July 1963, carrying Cuban diplomatic passport
number D/63/455.
1
STATE
CS COPY
SECRET
i
5
4
3
CO
2
1.
OCR
FBI 2
NO FORN DISSEM 201-83266S
DIA
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
NSA
I&NS
REP CINCLANT CINCSO #

Note: Field distribution indicated by"#")

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
WX 
AH SA EOB
NES R1
CELL THE CANADA
) LX-1526
AH SA MOBI VE MADRI CLREAS
REALS JE BRITISH
NO Project (AMMUG-1)
REALS JE BRITISH
AHSAR
L NASHEER RODANT 
TOTALS
Ima
A
AH SA CLA
AH NAVE
PCAM NO
NH SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1
OBSOLETE PRETEXT EDITIONS
LIAISON
201-332665
14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains informatio affecting the National Defense of the l'alted Stare strain the meaning of the Engage Lava Tive
18. USC Seca. 793 and 794, the trane of revelation of which in any manner is an unauthorised person is present by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. CS CI-316/00696-3:
SUBJECT Shipment of Explosives to
Mexico
DATE DISTR. 25 August 1964

NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES

1964
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE & Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQAugust 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Following is a translation of a report which source
wrote concerning a shipment of explosives to Mexico:

"The Communist Party of El Salvador had asked me to
send them twenty-five, one quarter pound packages of
gelatin explosives. They requested that the explosives be
sent to Mexico where they would recover them and take
them to El Salvador.

"In view of the request, I spoke with Manuel PINEIRO
regarding the shipment itself, as well as the amount.
PINEIRO answered by telling me to do so.

"During my trip to Mexico (March 1964) I spoke with
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez regarding this shipment and he told
me that there was no need of my sending the explosives
to Mexico as this type of explosive was available in the
Embassy. I then told RODRIGUEZ that I would answer the
request from El Salvador.

"Upon returning to Cuba I spoke with PINEIRO, who told
me not to send the explosives as the orders now were to
send nothing but money due to the recent exposure of the
arms shipment to Venezuela."

:
5
4
54
5
3
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
4
3
GROUP!
2
2
1
1
STATE
DIA
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
NSA
XXX
OCR
FBI 2
REP CINCLANT
CINCSO #
I&NS
(Note: Field distribution indicated by ".)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CHSA/FOB WES/R
CLLIA 1
LIE/CANADA
31FZBRITISHI
LWASH/DR1
RID AN
WHA
AH/SA/EOB LINE MADR 2 CLRAA
OLESAR
VIL SA/CL4
14
BOLAMAVE
TOTALS
FORM NO
LISA 7 (1) ME 1 (2), CIA. RID 1
OBOLETS MAX SDITIONS
LIAISO

Lia
LX-1642
NO PROJECT(AMMUQ/1
CSCI-316.00696-64
10000PING
VMK:LD:Swk
CLAR&A
1
14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

August 20, 1964
Date:
To: Mr. Winston M. Scott
From: Clark D. Andersen
Legal Attache
Re: ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

This document is for the use of your
agency.only and neither it nor its
contents should be further distributed
without appropriate authorization.

Reference is made to your communication of
May 26, 1964, that the subject and his chauffeur planned
to travel to Nuevo Laredo to pick up a new automobile.

A confidential source, who has furnished
reliable information in the past, furnished the follow-
ing information on July 24, 1964:

:. ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, of 160 Uturgas Street,
Mexico City, was in Nuevo Laredo on May 27, 1964, to
obtain an automobile for the Cuban Embassy in Mexico
City. A 1964 black Ford Galaxie 500, Serial Number
4B52X150451, was delivered to RODRIGUEZ on May 27, 1964.

RODRIGUEZ appeared to be about 23 years of age,
and it is known that he was buying cigarettes and radios
during his stay in Nuevo Laredo.

CONFIDENTIAL

Group 1
Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and Declassification
14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

The Mexican diplomatic license plates #333 were
placed on the above mentioned vehicle.

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL
Now has
D-36
14-00000

SECRET
(When Fil104 103
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
BUDDACT OF BULLMET
DIN LANT ICTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

GATE OF I
EVALVAFI0円

11. PATE
COCINENT DISCOSITION
***FEDRED TO THIS FILE
۲۰
۱۵۰
11.
Ad
RODRIGUEZ, LOPEZ, ROGEL 10
201-332665
SEX M DOB?
CUBA ?
CIT CUBA ?

201-334253
FIMMA-2402ό εοι
11 AUG 04
JI
P12

OCC IS AGENT
A MEXICO, MEXICO CITY
DGI OFFICIAL AND COMPLEMENT OF MANUEL
VEGA PEREZ /201-334253/.
19.
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
... 887
********* *....... ...

SECRET
2 141 651

3
:
3.

2141651
00000000
0000000
1111111111111111
22222222222222222222

4
444.4444

55555555555555555555
....................
11111111111111111111
.....
(۲۰۰۰)
HYMA 290280 EC1
111 Aug 64
14-00000

MEMORANDUM FCR THE RECORD

EXCERPT

24 July 1964
(info of May 1964)
SUBJECT: General: Debriefing Report 126 of AMMUG/1
Specific: Identification of Cuban Passports
and Other Fhotographs

Source identified the photographs of subjects and gave the
following comments:

.....

GAVILAN Rosales, Esther
AMMUG identified subject as the
wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ ( Lopez J.
a DGI officer stationed in the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City.

.....

Daniel Flores
WH/SA/CI

EXCERPTS

24 July 1964
14-00000

1:1
1.2
18.
República de Cuba
Ministerio de Redariones Exteriores

Pasapor
14-00000

1,0
12
18
El Sinistro de Relaciones Exteriores,
Vasaporte Diplomático a favor de
Fra Esther Gavilón Rosales
pia que por is via que más le convenga se dirija a
Çistutas Uridos Mexicunos
Biposa del Jr. Rogelio Rodriguez Lover Jecre
Hor tauta: en nombre del Sr. Firesidente de la República,
ardens a las Autoridades de la Nación le faciliten su embarca y
Is guasden las consideraciones debidas a su rangu. U ruega
sequiere a las de los paises extranjeros por donde transi-
bare, que le preeten todo el faber g ayuda que necesite y le re-
Conozcan las inmunidades y prerrogativas que conforme al Derecho
de goutes corresponden a los de su clase; haciéndolo asi asryu-
rfa reciprocidad en Cuba en casos análogos.
Habana, a 3. de
julio
de 1965
Acarintonas

f
14-00000
10
1:1
12
13

PERSONAS QUE LE ACOMPAÑAN:

TIENE CUS ENTRE
CIOA
14-00000

1.0
19
13
EMBAJADA DE MEXICO
VISA: DIPLOMATICA
NUMERO 648
Valida para dirigirse a Miéxico
LÀ HAGANA, CUBA 4 JUL 1963
PO DEL EMBAJADOR
1820
INNIGRA
ROEFESS
☆ JUL 8
BALIDA
8 1963
MIRISTERIO
DEL INTER
☆
14-00000

/-
332665
República de Cuba
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores.

Pasaporte Diplomati
14-00000

El Muistro de Relaciones Exteriores,
comedr Vasaporte Diplomático a Lavor de
Ir Rogelio Rodriguez Koper
yara que por la via que más le convenga se dirija a
Gaiedos Unidos MEXICONOS
donde ejercerá las funciones de Secretario adscripto
la Embajada de Cuba
Por tanto: en nombre del Sr. Presidente de la República,
erdena a las Autoridades de la Nación te faciliten su embarca y
le guarden las consideraciones debidas a su rongo. Y rueya
y requiere a las de los países extranjeros por donde transi-
dare, que le presten todo el favor y anuda que necesite y le re-
conozcan las inmunidades y prerrogativas que conforme at Derecha
de gentes corresponden a los de su clase; haciéndolo asi asegu-
racia la reciprocidad en Cuba en casos análogos.
Habana, a 5 ε
julio
Y
de 1965
Pelcarin tonas
Sinisteg de Relac
de Relaciones Exteriores
14-00000

'PERSONAS OUR LE ACOMPAÑAN
الحجامة
14-00000

جمة
GRACION CUBA
BOYEROS
WISTERID DE IN THIOR
BALIDA
JUL 8 1953. ☆
EMBAJADA DE MEXICO
VISA: DIPLOMATICA
NUMERO: 647
Valida
México
TABACANA, DAR & JUL 1963
PO.FL ENSAJADOR

CONSEJERO ESTADOS URIPOS MEXICANOS
14-00000

EXCERPT
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
24 July 1964.
(info of May 1964)
SUBJECT: General: Debriefing Report #126 of AMMUG/1
Specific: Identification of Cuban Passports
and Other Fhotographs

Source identified the photographs of subjects and gave the
following comments:

.....
GAVILAN Rosales, Esther
AMMUG identified subject as the
wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ ( Lopez J.
a DGI officer stationed in the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City.

......

Daniel, Flores
WH/SA/CI

EXCERPTS

24 July 1964
14-00000

1-3 32668
1:2
1.8.
República de Cuba
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores

14-00000

El Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores,
Pasaporte Diplomático a kávur de
Dre Esther Gavilón Rosules
ara que por la vis que auis le convenga se dirija a
Ostudar Uridos Mexicunos
Baposa del Jr. Rogelio Rodrigen Lover Fecre-
adscripto a la Cribojosa. To lose ese Mao
For tauto; en nombre del Sr. Piresidente de la República,
Ardenn a las Autoridades de la Nación de faciliten su embarca y
gunsden las consideraciones debidas a su rango. Y ruega
grequiere a las de los paises extranjeros por donde transi-
bire, que le prreten todo el favor y ayuda que necesite y le re-
conectan las inmunidades y prerrogativas que conforme al Derecho
de gentes corresponden a los de su clase; haciéndole asi aseyu-

la reciprocidad en Cuba en casus análogos.
Habana, a 3. de
julio
de 1963
Plienin towns
3
1400000

1,0
1:1
1.2
13
PERSONAS QUE LE ACOMPAÑAN:

7
TE PASAPOKIE THUNG CUSACR ENTRE
OALSHJINMIGRACION
14-00000

INMIGR
870
631☆
O DEL INTERIOR
EMBAJADA DE MEXICO
VISA DIPLOMATICA
NUMERO 648
Válida para dirigirse a México
LÀ HAGANA, CUBA 4 JUL 1963
GODEL EMBAJADOR
14-00000

TRANSMITTAL
OF
IDCS INFORMATION REPORT

ORIG B. Brownies.
CLASSILICATION
ALLO
132 SECRET
ROUTING
UNIT
Sports
EXT.
DAFE
5547
20
969
CONFIRMATION COPIES

INFORMATION COPIES.
5
3
Ja 23 21 09:54
TDCS-5
CI/CPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, IT/15, 16, CA 2, CA/PES, DD,
DATE DISTRIBUTED
23 July 1964
SAR
3 SA/31
SALICE/SA/SCS
SACI
SA SOB 1
EVALUATION
REQUESTED STATE
OF
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
DISSEMINATION
WHFAC
WP
WF/2/9
12/3/9
ARMY
NAVY
75/

AIR
NO FORLENDISSE

PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
BASED ON (FLD. APT., PROJ.)
31-0316
FM-9225
LANC

sor
CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

CAM 18-2
12-4215
