4-00000
104-10214-10034	
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET-EYES ONLY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page
The assassination	1
Overs knowledge of U.S. Government involvement	2
Recollections of CIA officials	3
The organization of the coup group	5
Why a coup failed to follow the assassination	8
International activity in opposition to Trujillo	11
The cast	13
The first Farland memorandum	16
Level of CIA activity prior to 1960	17
Approach to Trujillo by General Clark	17
Operation Lancet	19
State asks Farland if he could engineer a coup	20
Farland replies that he could	21
Farland says the dissidents need guns	22
The U.S. is prepared to assist in overthrowing Trujillo	24
Rubottom asks that sniper rifles be supplied the dissidents	25
Acting DCI approves air drop of 12 Springfield rifles	25
Special Group approves small arms for dissident	29
COS asks that one weapon be sent in each pouch	30
Dearborn learns of plan to assassinate by intercepting auto	33
Wimpy Berry asks for submachine guns for plotters	34
Dearborn asks for three .38-caliber pistols for dissidents	35
The plot to kill Trujillo at his mistress’ apartment	36
COS protests restriction on pouching weapons	36
Has guidance cable on policy and objectives	37
Station asks permission to pass three carbines to dissidents	38
Hqs approves passing carbines	40
The carbines are passed to the dissidents	41
Request for pouch waiver ref pouching submachine guns	41
Submachine guns pouched	42
Pleas from dissidents that submachine guns be passed to them	42
Hqs informs the station not repeat not to pass submachine guns	43
Post-Pay of Pigs stendom cable	44
Station acknowledges receipt of submachine guns	44
Draft cable (not sent) approving release of submachine guns	47
State Department disapproves passing submachine guns	48
The whereabouts of the three carbines	49
Special Group confirms not passing submachine guns to dissidents	50
The dissidents’ assassination plans are final	51
U.S. policy does not condone assassination	51
Dearborn and the COS protest	52
Critic No. 1 on the assassination	53
Vice President Johnson asks about arms delivery	54
Discovery of U.S. involvement with assassination group	55
Recapitulation of arms passed or considered for passing	59
The motivations of the assassins	61

SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
:
Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator, was assassinated at
about ten p.m. on the night of 30 May 1961. It was Trujillo’s
custom to visit one of his mistresses at his ranch at San Cristobal
about once a week. On most of his travels he rode in a Chrysler
with bullet-proof glass and with security guards riding in accompanying
cars. He departed from this practice on his periodic trips to San
Cristobal and substituted a highly stereotyped pattern of action:
after his nightly walk, he dismissed his companions; changed into a
khaki uniform; and set out for San Cristobal in an unescorted 1957
Chevrolet, always driven by the same chauffeur.
On the night of the slaying, the Chevrolet was intercepted on
a four-lane highway on the outskirts of Ciudad Trujillo by eight
armed assassins in three cars.
Trujillo was killed by gunfire, and
his body was removed from the scene by the assassins. Trujillo’s
chauffeur was seriously wounded, was left behind by the assassins,
and survived. All of the assassins escaped from the scene. One was
never caught and was eventually granted amnesty. Two were killed
while resisting arrest. The others… were arrested, confessed,
and were later executed before coming to trial. About eight or nine
others, who were in on or knew of the plot but did not participate
in the actual assassination, were killed while in custody, while
resisting arrest, or by suicide to avoid arrest and torture.
(Note: We use the term “plotters” to refer to all of those involved
in this attempt to overthrow Trujillo. “Assassins” refers to the
small group that actually did the killing.)

SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
:
There were reports in Ciudad Trujillo at the time that the
U.S. Consulate had been in some way involved with the plotters.
Eventually, after the surviving plotters were granted amnesty,
many of the details came out. Norman Gall, a reporter with the
San Juan Star, wrote an article that appeared in The New Republic
issue of 13 April 1963. Excerpts follow:

The assassination of the Dominican Republic’s Rafael L.
Trujillo was carried out with assistance from the US Central
Intelligence Agency. Arms for the May 30, 1961 slaying of the
69-year-old dictator on a lonely stretch of highway near his
capital were smuggled by the CIA into the country at the
request of the assassins.

The CIA began shipping arms to the Dominican Republic in
late 1960, following a series of talks between US Consul Henry
Dearborn, Chief Political Officer John Farfield of the US
Consulate, and Luis Amiama Tio. Also involved in the plot was
Antonio Imbert, who had been Governor of Porto Plata province.

As Trujillo’s political and financial problems deepened,
talks continued between Dearborn, Farfield and leaders of the
anti-Trujillo conspiracy. Toward the end of 1960, contact was
established between Amiama and a CIA agent who… was
named Plato Cox.

The key link between the assassins and the CIA in the arms
shipments was a long-time American civilian resident of Ciudad
Trujillo, Lorenzo Berry, otherwise known as “Wimpy,” who operated
a supermarket in a fashionable neighborhood where Trujillo also
lived. “Wimpy” was put under brief arrest after the killing but
was later allowed to leave the country.

The weapons were imported in small parts, to be assembled
later by the plotters, among the routine grocery shipments for
the supermarket arriving regularly in the capital’s port. The

-2-

SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000

gun parts entered the Republic in specially-marked food cans,
which were later turned over to the conspirators.

Plans for the intended assassination were worked out during
the same period in which the abortive assault on Cuba was being
prepared. However, when the CIA-organized April 17, 1961,
invasion at the Bay of Pigs failed and world attention was
focused on Washington’s complicity in that operation, a post-
ponement of the attempt on Trujillo’s life was ordered because
of the embarrassment another such failure might cause the
United States. But the order to hold up came too late. The
needed weapons were already in the hands of the conspirators,
who refused appeals by Dearborn and Barfield to delay the
assassination. They insisted on moving at the first opportunity.
This came on May 30, when Trujillo and his chauffeur drove out
into the country in an unescorted 1957 Chevrolet for a
rendezvous at a San Cristobal estate, La Fundacion, with
Trujillo’s 20-year-old mistress, Mona Sanchez.

It can be reported on excellent authority that close
associates of the slain dictator knew of the US role within
a few days following the killing.

Dearborn, Barfield and Berry had meanwhile been rushed
out of the Dominican Republic by US officials.
Since the ouster of the Trujillos, Berry (“Wimpy”) has
returned to operate his handsomely appointed supermarket,
where he greets customers with calm and courtesy, as if
Trujillo had never lived.

We interviewed Richard Bissell (then DD/P), J. C. King (then
Chief, WH Division), and J. D. Esterline (then Chief of Operations,
WH Division). King recalls the Agency’s role as being limited to
monitoring internal plotting against the Trujillo regime “but not
pushing or instigating.” Esterline, like King, recalls that the
Agency was not directly involved in coup plotting. He described the

-3-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
furnishing of weapons as a symbol—something that would constitute
tangible evidence of U.S. support. Bissell remembers the Agency
role as being somewhat more positive than that described by King
and Esterline. He viewed the Agency’s role as one of giving support
to an indigenous group whose intended actions were in the U.S.
interest. He described the affair as “a fairly normal operation
involving meetings, discussions, and formal approvals.” We do not
have firm information as to whether or not any of the weapons
supplied by CIA were actually used in the assassination of Trujillo.
Both Esterline and King believe they were not. Bissell, however,
has a vague impression that one of them was.

The Agency officers most immediately involved with the plotters
are now widely scattered. Lear Reed, who was chief of station
until October 1960, is now retired. Robert Owen, who was chief
of station at the time of the assassination, is in Paris. Charles
Cookson, the station’s operations officer, is in Brazil. Isabel
Cintron, the station’s administrative assistant who was used as a
communications link and in the passing of the arms, resigned in 1964
and is believed to be living in Puerto Rico. Ned Holzan, the head-
quarters branch chief, is in Guatemala City. We elected not to call
back any of these people for interviews. While they might be able

SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

to furnish minor details that are missing from the written records,
we think it unlikely that they would be able to add significantly
to the quite complete record that appears in the EMDEED operational
files.
:
Agency activities aimed at replacing the Trujillo regime were
assigned the cryptonym EMDEED. One segment of EMDEED was known as
EMSLEW, the cryptonym for the operation to remove Trujillo by
violent action. We have reviewed the voluminous EMDEED files. Most
of this account is drawn from them. Many of the more significant
documents were not put into the EMDEED files but were kept in a
private file by J. C. King. He made that file available to us.
We also have studied another particularly useful document. The
Dominican Military Intelligence Service (SIM) officer put in charge
of the
investigation of the Trujillo assassination was a navy lieutenant named Ortiz:
The Dominican Republic assigned him to its embassy in Ottawa in
November 1961 when the Trujillo family’s attempt to regain power
failed. The New York field office, of the FBI held extensive
interviews with him from 6 April through 10 May 1962. The result
was a massively-detailed, 182-page report on the plot and on the
assassination as reconstructed by the SIM from its interrogations
of the persons it apprehended.

-5-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000

SECRET-EYES ONLY
(the EMDEED operational files)
From the records, we can trace the origins and the course of
U.S. policy with respect to the overthrow of Trujillo. We also can
ascertain from the files the nature and the extent of U.S. support
of the plotters, including the passing to them of weapons out of the
U.S. Consulate in Ciudad Trujillo. What we cannot discover from the
files, despite quite massive documentation, is how the coup group
was organized. The best single account we find, and it is not wholly
accurate, is in a book by Robert Crassweller.* The main flaw in
the story is its failure to identify the individuals with whom the
U.S. Government was actually working. Excerpts follow:

The plot was organized on the basis of two groups of
conspirators linked together by a liaison that later proved
too fragile to bear the stresses laid upon it. Each group
had its purpose and its separate personnel.

The function of the Action Group was to assassinate
Trujillo and immediately present proof of its success, in
the form of Trujillo’s corpse, to the second group, the
Political Group. The latter would then launch a coup,
taking over the machinery of the government and the Armed
Forces.

The Action Group consisted of eight men. It appears to
have been organized originally by General Antonio Imbert
Barreras and Salvador Estrella.
They were joined
by Lieut. Amado Garcia Guerrero, a member of the military
corps attached to Trujillo in the National Palace; Antonio
de la Maza, the brother of Octavio de la Maza, who had been
killed by the government because of his involvement in the

* Robert D. Crassweller, Trujillo: The Life and Times of a
Caribbean Dictator (New York: MacMillan Co., 1966)

-6-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Galintez case; Huascar Tejeda; Roberto Pastoriza; and Pedro
Livio Cedeno. The eighth member, Manuel Caceres Tunti, was in
Moca on the night of the 30th and saw none of the action.

The Political Group had a less distinct membership. It
included Luis Amiama Tio, Modesto Diaz, General Juan Tomas
Diaz, and several others. At the very top it had the support
of General Roman Fernandez, Secretary of State for the Armed
Forces, and his brother Bibin.

The over-all authority appears to have centered principally
in General Diaz, probably the only one who had sufficient
prestige to command authority.

The Action Group would remain in daily readiness. When
information in the Palace indicated that Trujillo was going
to drive to Estancia Fundacion
Garcia Guerrero in the
Palace would inform the others by personal message…

The expected message from Garcia Guerrero in the Palace
came to the patient plotters at seven o’clock on the evening
of May 30. They were not fully prepared and coordinated at
this moment, but the emotional and impetuous de la Maza
threatened to act by himself if the others lagged… In any
event, the plan went into execution.
Each of them
had his revolver or pistol, and de la Maza also had his own
sawed-off shotgun and two M-1 semiautomatic rifles…

The conspiracy began to come apart within an hour. Never
very professionally contrived, the plot was hastened prematurely
to its culmination by the impatience of de la Maza, and it was
now afflicted with bad luck and ineptitude. Immediately after
the assassination, the men of the Action Group were unable to
reach General Roman.

The Political Group of the conspiracy never took up its
planned role. The Action Group scattered, leaving a trail as
wide as a boulevard. Trujillo’s body was left in the trunk of
de la Maza’s car, parked in the garage of General Tomas Diaz,
where the police found it in a few hours. The conspirators
were all hunted down very quickly, except for Amiama and
Imbert, who managed to conceal themselves for months until
the danger had passed.
:
-7-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
The FBI report of its interviews of Ortiz, the SIM investigator,
gives an excellent account of why the plot fell apart after the
assassination took place. One of the assassins, Pedro Livio Cedeno,
was seriously wounded (probably by fire from his own companions).
All of the assassins assembled at General Diaz’ house after the
killing. One of them called a friend, Dr. Robert Reid Cabral, to
treat Livio. Dr. Reid found him so badly injured that surgery would
be required. Reid and two of the assassins took Livio to a hospital.
While in delirium he mumbled the names “de la Maza” and “Juan
Tomas.” The police immediately picked up two brothers of Antonio
de la Maza. Neither was personally involved in the plot, but both
knew the details and the names of most of the assassins. General
Diaz, Antonio de la Maza, and Lieut. Garcia Guerrero were killed
resisting arrest. Amiama and Imbert went into hiding and survived.
The rest were caught and interrogated following torture. All
confessed.
The confessions led to identification of persons who were in
or on the fringes of the Political Group: General Roman and his
brother, Amiama Tio, General Garcia Urbaez, General Guarionex
Estrella, Tomas Baez Diaz, Modesto Diaz, and Miguel Angel Baez Diaz.
Lorenzo Berry (Wimpy) was identified as a communications link between
the plotters and the U.S. Consulate. However, the SIM did not
8-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

discover the identities of the political plotters with whom the
Consulate was actually working, because neither of the men who might
have known the identities were available for interrogation. Amiama Tio
escaped and General Diaz was killed.

Although the identities and the intention of the Action Group
were fairly widely known to persons not actually members of it, there
appears to have been excellent compartmentation between the Political
and the Action Groups—perhaps too much compartmentation. The
assassination itself was well planned. General Diaz was in over-
all charge of the operation, but de la Maza was the one who did all
of the work. He took three cars to a local garage and had the
engines rebuilt so that the cars could reach speeds of 120 mph.
He had possession of the weapons from the U.S. Consulate, plus
several of his own. He and the other participants took the cars
to the site selected for the killing and conducted dry runs each
night. Everything was ready and the assassins were lying in wait
for Trujillo on the night of 23 May. At the last minute he decided
not to go to San Cristobal because he wasn’t feeling too well. The
assassins continued their dry runs each evening. After the assassina-
tion was carried out, essentially as it had been planned, the coup
that was to follow failed—in part because of bad luck, in part because
of poor planning, and in part because of too much compartmentation.

-9-
SECRET-EYES ONLY
4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

General Roman, who was to take over the government after Trujillo’s
death, was not told that the assassination was to be attempted on
May 30th. After the slaying, General Diaz tried to telephone
General Roman but could not reach him. Diaz then took the car
with Trujillo’s body still in its trunk and drove to Roman’s house.
He saw so many soldiers in the vicinity that he gave up and returned
home, leaving the car in the driveway with the body still in the
trunk, where it was later found by the police.
:
What had happened was this: Former general and former head
of the SIM, Arturo Espaillat, happened to chance upon the scene
while the assassination was taking place. He was out for a drive
with his wife and was passed by a car that he recognized as Trujillo’s.
He stopped at a drive-in restaurant and almost immediately heard
shooting ahead, which he suspected involved Trujillo. He drove to
the scene, saw what was happening, turned around, and sped back
into town. He stopped at a military installation and gave the
alarm and then drove to the home of General Roman to alert him.
He and Roman then returned to the scene of the assassination,
arriving simultaneously with the police. The police found Trujillo’s
chauffeur, who was wounded but still alive. Roman and Espaillat
then went to the hospital to try to question the chauffeur. Thus,
General Diaz could not reach General Roman to inform Roman that
- 10 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

Trujillo had been killed and that it was time for Roman to make his
move to take over the government. Roman knew only that there had been
a shooting involving Trujillo and that Trujillo was missing. He did
not know whether General Diaz’ group was involved in it or not. He
was reluctant to move until he was sure that Trujillo was dead. By
the time Roman concluded that Trujillo must be dead, it was too late
for him to act; Hector Trujillo and Johnny Abbes had already taken
charge. Roman did make a couple of feeble tries at engineering a
take over, but it is apparent that he had no real advance plan nor
any appreciable chances of succeeding.

The assassination itself and the plotting preceding it took
place against a background of international activity in opposition
to the Trujillo regime, with both the OAS and the U.S. taking clear-
cut stands. These are some of the highlights:

a. A briefing paper prepared in WH Division for the Joint
Chiefs of Staff in August 1960 states that a revolt was planned
for December 1959 in the Dominican Republic but was delayed
pending receipt of arms from Venezuela. The plot was discovered
and was rolled up in January. Venezuela brought charges in the
OAS that the Dominican Republic was “in flagrant violation of
human rights, freedom, and democracy” following the mass arrests
in the Dominican Republic in January 1960. A committee of the

-11 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

OAS assigned to investigate the charges reported on 8 June 1950
that the Dominican government was guilty as charged.
:
b. A near-miss assassination attempt against President
Betancourt on 24 June 1960 killed two in his entourage and
injured him and several others. The Venezuelan government
announced after capture of most of the assassins that the
Dominican government was responsible for the attempt on Betan-
court’s life and took its case to the OAS. On 20 August, the
OAS voted sanctions against the Dominican Republic. Under
Secretary of State Dillon, testifying before the House Agriculture
Committee on 24 August in support of a request by President
Eisenhower for a cut in the Dominican Republic’s sugar quota,
is reported as having said that it was hoped that economic
sanctions would result in the downfall of Trujillo’s dictator-
ship and its replacement by a moderate and free regime. The
United States severed diplomatic relations with the Dominican
Republic on 26 August 1960, although consular relations were
continued.

- 12 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
:
As a further prelude to a chronological review of operation
EMDEED/EMSLEW, we think it would be useful to identify the people
involved, especially since officers of the Department of State
played a very prominent role.

Washington – Department of State

Roy R. Rubottom		Assistant Secretary of State for
			Inter-American Affairs
Frank Devine		Special Assistant to Rubottom
Joan C. Hill			Special Assistant to Rubottom

Washington – CIA

J. C. King			Chief, WH Division
Ned Holzan			Chief, Branch III, WH Division

Ciudad Trujillo – Department of State

Joseph S. Farland		Ambassador until 28 June 1960. It is
			pertinent to note that King and Ester-
			line attribute U.S. and CIA involvement

- 13 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Henry Dearborn		Counsellor of Embassy until 26 August
			1960 and Consul General thereafter. He
			used the code name DELTA in correspondence
			with the plotters.
John D. Farfield		Second Secretary until 26 August 1960
			and a consular officer thereafter.
			CIA cryptonym: EMDAZE-1
Ciudad Trujillo – CIA

Lear Reed			Chief of Station until October 1960

Robert Owen			Chief of Station from 20 January until
			4 June 1961. Code name used with the
			plotters: GALGO
Charles Cookson		Operations Officer

Isabel Cintron		Administrative Assistant

Key Dominican Plotters

Dr. Jordi Brossa		Code names: SWORD and EL CHICO

Juan Vicini			Code Names: Mr. X, ABC, and YAGUATE

Luis Baquero		Code name: SOCRATES

- 14 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000-

SECRET-EYES ONLY

S. Thomas Stocker		An American in the Dominican Republic
			with whom the station had had an earlier
			unhappy experience. The consulate
			preferred to have nothing to do with him,
			but the Dominican plotters brought him in
			as a cutout to the consulate. He took
			delivery from Lorenzo Berry of three
			carbines passed to Berry from the U.S.
			Consulate, for use by the plotters. He
			held them for a few days and then gave
			them back when Berry insisted they be
			returned. Berry then passed them to
			one of the assassins.
Dr. Severo Cabral		Code names: HECTOR and PLUTARCO
Jose Francisco Tapia
Aulio Brea
Andres Freitas		Code name: ANDY
Luis Amiama Tiq
Jose Rene Roman
Juan Tomas Diaz		Code name: CRISTOBAL
Donald Reid Cabral		Code name: CIBAO
Lorenzo D. Berry		“Wimpy” - Berry is a U.S. citizen who
			owned Wimpy’s Supermarket in Ciudad
			Trujillo. He was the main communica-
			tions link between the plotters and
			the U.S. Consulate. The weapons
			furnished the plotters were actually
			passed to Berry.
Flerida Berry			Wimpy’s wife – a Dominican citizen of
			Syrian extraction. She appears to have
			been even more active in the plot than
			her husband. It was she who had the
			contacts with the Dominicans involved.
-15-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
(

Most communications between the
Dominican plotters and the U.S.
Consulate were by means of written
notes. Mrs. Berry received the notes
from or passed them to either the
Consul General’s secretary or the
CIA Station’s administrative assistant.

Two documents provide a useful point of departure, from an
historical point of view. One is a semi-official letter from
Ambassador Farland in the Dominican Republic to Assistant
Secretary of State Rubottom. The other document is an internal
CIA staff paper revealing the relatively passive role that had
been played by CIA prior to 1960.

16 November 1959

Ambassador Farland wrote an “Official-Informal” memorandum
to Rubottom reporting that “the underground is more active today
than ever in the history of the Trujillo regime.” He described the
principal opposition group as being about 2,000 strong. He said:

“… within this group there is growing militant anti-
American feeling based on the premise that the United States
should actively aid the Dominican revolutionary (sic) for the
overthrow of the Trujillo regime. Discussions I have heard on
this subject show an appalling lack of understanding of the
position of the United States and its adopted doctrine of non-
intervention.

This group is in possession of
clandestine broadcasting equipment which will go into operation
when the strike is made. CAS has been informed and joins with
me in suggesting that you pass this information to J. C. King.”

- 16 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
:
15 February 1960
:
A CIA staff paper, addressed to Chief, WH Division, discusses
a plan for improving intelligence coverage of the Dominican Republic
in the event of Trujillo’s removal from power. The objectives
stated in the paper were to ensure orderly transition in the event
Trujillo abdicated or was deposed and to prevent a takeover by
Castro-type forces. The following excerpt reveals the level of
CIA activity in the Dominican Republic prior to that time:

“The COS Ciudad Trujillo conducts no covert operations;
however, his official contacts with Generalissimo Trujillo and
with the Chief of the Dominican Security Services has enabled
him on occasion to assess the attitudes and reactions of the
Trujillo government to internal opposition activities and to
criticisms of and activities directed against the Dominican
government by exiles and other American governments unfriendly
to the Dominican regime.”

10 March 1960

This is the date of the first draft that appears in Agency files
of a plan to persuade Trujillo to retire. The originator of the draft
is not shown, but it was to be forwarded to President Eisenhower
from General Edwin Clark, a friend of the President from their years
of military service. The plan was for Clark to approach Trujillo,
with whom he had been on good terms in the past, and attempt to
persuade Trujillo to retire. It was to be pointed out that there was
- 17 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

no one who could succeed him, and that to protect his family and
to preserve his image as El Benefactor, he should step down and
allow asylum to be arranged for him. His family would have the
wealth already outside the Dominican Republic, and the fortune
by
inside would be placed in trust, to be administered/internationally-
known personages for the benefit of the Dominican people.

This proposition received high-level attention in Washington,
including that of President Eisenhower, Secretary of State Herter,
and Allen Dulles. In approving Clark’s approach to Trujillo,
the President specified that Clark should travel as a representative
of the State Department, rather than as a personal emissary of the
President. General Clark traveled to the Dominican Republic and
met with Trujillo on 27 March. By the time of the meeting it
appears that it had been decided that the plan would be presented
as merely that of private citizen Clark, and that was what was done.
The station thought it likely that Trujillo recognized the official
U.S. Government hand in the proposal. Of course, nothing came of the
meeting.

22 March 1960

Ambassador Farland, in a TOP SECRET memorandum to Rubottom,
forwarded a plan of a Dominican group plotting Trujillo’s overthrow

- 18 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

bearing the code name “Operation Lancet.” It was basically a
proposal for a course of political action reinforced by the threat
of being backed by muscle. The operation was to begin with the
arrival of a “special U.S. confidential envoy”/who would tell Trujillo
to leave the country. “He tells it plainly and decisively; he will
give him 12 or 18 hours to do it.” It would be made clear that
if Trujillo refused, a border incident would be contrived, which
would be followed by “collective intervention.” Assuming
Trujillo’s acceptance of the ultimatum, the plan then outlined steps
for transition to an operating representative government. The army
would be reduced in size. A caretaker government would prepare for
free elections. Ambassador Farland forwarded the plan with these
comments of his own to Rubottom:

“… this segment of the dissidents is psychologically
conditioned to a point where it will take any step except the
ultimate, and for the execution of the latter they expect
United States assistance…
“Dick, I think the time has come for certain agencies of
our Government, without attribution, to establish and implement
a definite constructive program to influence the course of events
in the Dominican Republic. My conversations with the Secretary
and Allen Dulles emphasized the problems and the possibilities
of this type of approach. …”

30 March & 7 April 1960

The Special Group considered actions that might be taken in the

- 19 -
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

event of a flare-up in the Dominican Republic. On 30 March, fearing
that Cuba might be involved, there was talk of evacuating U.S.
civilians from Guantanamo. There was also discussion of the
possibility of sealing off the land entrance to the Dominican Republic
from Haiti and of the problem of providing asylum for Trujillo. On
7 April, there was further talk of sealing off the country if Trujillo
fell, and an appraisal was made of the chances of his leaving
willingly:

“… it is evident that Trujillo will not consider
making any arrangements for orderly succession to himself, but
that he will either hang on to the bitter end or flee the
country on short notice, a la Batista.”

9 April 1960

State sent a cable to Farland through CIA channels, from which
the following is an extract:

“Could you, if so instructed, make appropriate arrangements
within next few weeks with appropriate civil and military
dissident elements to take over the GODR? You would be authorized
to indicate to them that as soon as they had seized power they
should immediately request United States recognition, and ask for
United States military assistance under Article Three of the Rio
Treaty in the event of actual or threatened Castro-sponsored
invasions or of threatened insurrection incited by pro-Castro
or pro-Communist elements within or outside Dominican Republic…

“What, if any, aid would be essential to dissident elements
prior to takeover ….”

-20-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY

“FYI wish to emphasize strongly that above is for contingency
planning purposes only and in no way intimates higher authority
at present contemplates such action….”

11 April 1960

Farland cabled his reply through CIA channels, in part as follows:

“Under instruction, it would be possible for me to make
arrangements with appropriate civilian dissidents whose leaders
are known to me including names their selectees for top
governmental positions, and with one military dissident, a
general, who is expecting an exchange of passwords for purpose
secret discussions…

“Regardless of … seething unrest which exists,
indications reflect Dominican dissidents, who are admittedly
poorly armed, loosely organized and lack working liaison with
military dissidents, will find it difficult to effect take-
over of GODR without existence one or more or combination of
following developments (which we summarize below):

(1) Clandestine arms shipments, with sabotage materiel.
(2) An invasion to serve as a signal to the populace.
(3) Implementation of the dissidents’ “Operation Lancet.”
(4) Advance psychological conditioning by radio.
(5) “Incapacitation or assassination of Trujillo.”
(6) A careful step-by-step plan for the period preceding
the coup and for the period following it.

Farland stated a need for “minimum but key cooperation” from Dominican
military dissidents. He added:

“One of the greatest contributions U.S. could make to
dissidents would be to let them know we are prepared to assist

-21-
SECRET-EYES ONLY

4-00000
SECRET-EYES ONLY
them; transmission of armament and sabotage material… could
fully substantiate this cooperation….”

9 May 1960

and signed by R.E. Darst, Chief, WH/CA,
Division, reports steps
A memorandum addressed to Caler,
taken or recommended for improving CIA’s capabilities in the
Dominican Republic. The paper refers to the need for covert action
assets, principally to obstruct infiltration of Communists or
Fidelistas. Among things recommended were: placement of a junior
officer in the embassy; assignment of a full-time officer to the
headquarters desk for the covert action program; authorization to use
Jose Figueres in third country operations; development of a
contingency M-plan in the event Trujillo fell and hostile forces
attempted to seize power, and establishment of a “U.S. Committee
for Democracy in the Dominican Republic.”

A memorandum written of a debriefing of Ambassador Farland reads,
in part, as follows:

“The dissidents need guns and ammunition from the United
States. In particular they need a small number of high-powered
rifles with telescopic lenses. The Ambassador said that he saw
no problem in the purchase and delivery clandestinely of the
arms to the dissidents. But he said