14-00000
104-10172-10112 
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HATERIAL CEVTENED AT CTS HEADQUARTERS BY 
HOUSE SELECT CENTER ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEINERS 

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLEIE: HALPERIN MAURICE HYMAN.
20%-128561
(VOL. VIL)
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN 62- 76

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 
ROON: 

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DICUMENTS.

DATE DATE SIGNATURE OF
RECEIVED RETURNED REVINNED BY REVIEWING OFFICIALL
(PRINT NAME) 

Amay 
23 244 237AY JOHANNA SOUTH "

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FRONT TILLS FILE.

HALTERIN, Maurice Hyman

201-128561

Vol. VII
THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS - 201-128561 (HALPERIN)

FBI (Boston) 2/6/62; File 100-25501 & 65-14303
FBI (Boston) 1/25/63; Files as above
FBI (Washington) 2/26/63; re HALPERIN
FBI (Washington) 2/26/63
FBI (Boston) 1/13/64; File #BS 100-25501 & 65-14303
FBI (Washington) 1/18/65

FBI (Boston) 3/25/66; File #100-31726 & 100-424134
re Edity Evelyn HALPERIN

FBI (Washington) 6/14/66; File # (S) 65-14303
FBI (Boston) 12/15/66
FBI (Washington) 10/10/67
FBI (Washington) 4/30/68
FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Maurice
FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Edith

EUR, Karice yean 44
200: 3 5 1906 STMASSOT
03: Berta, Massachusetts
ifo! Si Frisch HALFERI

GUCY Case
25361
TROLLIOT
Subject is a U.3. citisen and a former 053 amployee.
Subject has been closely associated with Martha Dold and
ALTEK. in Mexico, sad be handled care of
Staria baleese affairs. As of April 1959, saj balieved
to be in thecov.
FIS INFOT 10. 33

// dossier (Also osa LOHAYPOAL CARS files.)
-erted Subject.la reterm
on a Christmas card (1) an Art Ca
stre
remar, alene, Caba; first time that sunt et les rivin
זייןs on a prating card.
:

201-128561

14-00000
AG8
OUTGOING MESSAGE
GIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
03
ACP
12 2
100 TPE U DCI 0 PAGS L
0 C00.0
CLASSIFICATION
OMF 0
SECRET.
MER STAFF
NANDLING INDICATOR
MESSAGE AT
DATE TIME GROUP
1321302 DIRECTOR 683288
CONF: C/13 INFO: FILE DDOS PDO/DD OGC CASS DISSEM BY: 45
0 0
RETURN TO PER CA
EYES ONLY
0. #26.0.)
TO: YEURB
LONDON INFO OTTAWA.۲

RYBAT PLMHBLANKET Y

REF: LONDON 74209 IN 971297) (RELAYED OTTAWAY

1. PER REFERENCE REQUEST FOR TRACES ON MAURICE HYMAN

HALPERIN (201-128561), WE ARE FORWARDING VIA TM FIVE 1960
NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS AND A RECENT ARTICLE FROM THE SIMON FRABSER UNI-
VERSITY, BRITISH COLUMBIA, ALUMNI MAGAZINE FOR PASSAGE TO JAGUAR.

THIS INFORMATION IS PROVIDED PURSUANT TO OUR SERVICE TO SERVICE`
ARRANGEMENT FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION ON PERSONS OF COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE INTEREST.Y

2. MAURICE HALPERIN HAS TWO CHILDREN: DAVID CARLOS BORN S MAY
1937 IN OKLAHOMA CITY AND JUDITH YVONNE BORN 3 SEPT 1931 IN BOSTON.
(SOURCE: DBD-43144, 25 MAR 1966) LNERGO APPROVES PASSING TO
JAGUAR. AGENCY RECORDS ON MORTON HALPERIN DO NOT REFLECT ANY RELA-
TIONSHIP WITH MAURICE HALPERIN.. HALPERIN IS A COMMON NAME.
:
3. PUBLICATIONS SINCE 1957: "GROWTH AND CRISIS IN THE LATIN
AMERICAN ECONOMY: 1961, "CONFERENCIAS SOBRE GEOGRAFIA ECONOMICA"
1964, "HACIA UN NUEVO SISTEMA DE PLANIFICACION Y DIRECCION..
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
P&L DISSEM
Ha
RECORD COPY
SUTHENTICATIONS OFFICER
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS

14-00000
400
OMF D
OUTGOING MESSAGE
USION
000.0
SECRET
MERSAGE HANDLING PENCATOR
STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE
0 0 BC 0 DATE-TMS GROUP CTE
DIRECTOR
883288
PAGES
2 2
0 IDER DISSEM BY:
0 NO INDER
0 astuen.t0 PER
0 PASS B

ECONOMICAS EN LA UNION SOVIETICA" 1964, AND "THE RISE AND DECLINE OF
FIDEL CASTRO - AN ESSAY IN CONTEMPORARY HISTORY", UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA PRESS-Y
:
4. THE FOLLOWING IS FROM FHABOVE AND NEEDS THEIR CONCURRENCE TO
PASS TO JAGUAR. MAURICE HALPERIN IS CURRENTLY TEACHING AT SIMON
FRASER UNIVERSITY IN BRITISH COLUMBIA AND EXPECTS THAT THE UNIVERSITY
WILL EXTEND HIS TEACHING APPOINTMENT TO AUGUST 1977. HALPERIN TOLD
FHABOVE THAT HE AND HIS WIFE TOURED ISRAEL, ITALY, GREECE, SPAIN, AND
ENGLAND IN THE SUMMER OF 1975. HE IS CURRENTLY WORKING ON THE SECOND
VOLUME OF HIS BOOK ON CUBA. HE LEFT THE IMPRESSION WITH FHABOVE THAT
WHEN IT IS FINISHED HE WILL BEGIN WORK ON HIS AUTOBIOGRAPHY. ESOURCE:
OCOA-19102、22 JAN 7614

5. FOR OTTAWA: JAGUAR HAS REQUESTED TRACES ON MAURICE HALPERIN.
PLS NOTIFY LONDON IF FHABOVE APPROVES PASSING INFO FROM PARA FOUR
ABOVE TO JAGUAR.Y

b. FILE: 73-6-46/3. E2 IMPDET.Η

DATE: 12 JUL
ORIG: PATSY HOLEY
UNIT: CI/OG
EXT: 1117
-
DDO/AGC A. E. GOLDIN CIN DRAFT
EUR/BC
E/FA/K WPET PU.II

CC/E
CLASSIFICATION
COORDINATIS OFFICERS
REPRODUCTIO BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO.. JITED
AC/CI/OG
AUTHENTICATING PICES
E2 IMPDET

14-00000
Ex-OSS Official Works
For Reds in Moscow
BY VICTOR LASKY
North American Neeswaper Aliance
A former Bosten University
professor, who once was a high
official in the OSS, has turned
up in Moscow working for the
Soviet government,
The professor. Dr. Maurice
H. Halperin, Ned this country
seven years ago after an in-
quiry into his Communist back-
groünd.
According to the State De
partment, he probably is ad-
vising Soviet officials on Latin
American affairs, an area in
which he is expert.-
Prof. Halperin was suspended
by Boston. Untiersity in 1953
after he refused, en constitu-
tional grounds, to tell a Senate
subcommittee whether he had
ever been a Communist Party
member.

According to the State De-
partment, he had previously
been involved in Soviet espio.
nage in wartime Washington.
He had been named by Eliza
beth Terril Bentley, admitted
former spy courier, as one of
her sources of supply among
Government officials.

Intrigue in Mexico

And since 1953. Dr. Halperin,
has been involved in still more
Intrigue as an "exile" in Mexi-
co. It was, he, for exariple,
who assisted two suspected
spies in their flight from Mex-
Ico to Czechoslovakia to avoid
United States extradition pro-
ceedings.
On July 15, 1960. Dr. Hal-
perin and his wife. Edith, ap-
peared at the United States
Embassy in Moscow to present
their United States passports
for renewal.

All this was disclosed in a
State Department memoran-
Cum prepared for Senator
Keating. Republican of New
York, who has been urging the
passage of re-
ported legislation empowering
the department to deny pass-
ports to active participants in
Soviet skullduggery.
The memorandum, citing
"cases where passports have
had to be issued to known
Communists, devoted consid-
rable attention to the case of
WASH DC
STAR

31 Aug 60

MAURICE H. HALPERIN
AP Photo
Dr. Halperin. It was obvious
on the basis of the information
contained in his dossier that
the State Department had been
keeping an eye on the former
professor's movements for some.
time.

Fired in Oklahoma

From 1931 to 1941. Dr. Hal-
perin-a Harvard University
graduate-had been a professor
at the University of Oklahoma.
According to the record, it was
in this period that he directed
Communist activities in Okla-
homa and, on repeated visits
to Mexico, conferred with Mex-
ican Red leaders. On one visit
to Cuba in 1933, he and other
leftwingers had been arrested
by Cuban authorities and ex-
pelled from the country..

In 1941, much of this was
disclosed in an investigation
conducted by an Oklahoma
State legislative committee.
The committee. Investigating
subversive activities in Okla
homa, produced information
that in 1940. Dr. Halperin had
cashed a check for $438 drawn
on the Bank of Foreign Trade
in Moscow. As a result, Dr.
Halperin was dismissed from
the University of Oklahoma..
Despite this record. Dr. Hal-
perin managed to enter Gor-
See HALPERIN, Paze A-6

HALPERIN

Continued From First Pace
ernment service. Employed as
chief of the Latin American
division of the Omce of Stra-
tegic Services (the OSS was
then the United States Civilian
Intelligence-Gathering Agency),
he later was transferred to the
State Department. In doin
agencies, according to the
Elizabeth Bentley testimony, he
transmitted confidential docu-
ments to a Soviet spy ring.

Linked to Spy Ring

In 1949, he became head of
the Latin American regionali
students section at Boston Uni-
versity's. College of Liberal
Arts.

A year later, he was first
publicly identified as a member
of a Soviet spy ring. This came
about when Vice President
Nixon, then a California Con-
gressman, made known a top
secret memorandum on espi-
onase transmitted by Inder
Director J. Edgar Hoover toi
the White House on Novem-
ber 8. 1945.
In March, 1953. In Boston's
Federal Building. Dr. Halperin
repeatedly invoked the Fifth
Amendment when in a hearing
ing conducted by the Senate
Internal Security Subcommit-
tees he refused to reply to ta
questens concerning al.legedly
esed Communat activi
In November, 2014, Hal-
pezia and his wide, without
leaving the unwrrsity, left
their home in the middle of ther
and never to the turnst
In Mexico ber devanie
members of the American Com-
munist group in Mecca
Lhe nost ACGM memers,
Lhe lisnperins did well. Ther
Tedabbled in an
Tadabbled a real estate.
and ebained jobs. Dr Halperin.
was employed by the Mexican
covernment as a Gnancial con-
shant and lus were taught in
American School Founda-

Hey also became friendle
Alfred K. Stern and his
jwife, the former Martha Dodd.
daushter of a former United
States Ambassador ta Germany
The fact the Stems had been
Lashested in Sariet espionage
jcame out with the arrest in
New York of Jack Soble, a So-
fries asent. To avoid being ex-
radited to the United States
to testify before a special grand
jury on their associations with
See and "the double agent
Bves Morros," the Sterns fled
Czechoslovakia in July, 1957.
Dr. Halperin, described as
dens "intimately involved in
heur plans for escape," had
obtained atrline reservations
or the Sterns under ether
names. As a result, the Mexi
can government was consider-
ing his case for deportation.
Ca October 13, 1938, the Hal-
perus left Mexica, having
cadiarned plane reservations in
the names of other persons.
The State Department mem-
wandum concludes:

"We received information:
shortly after Halperin's de-
parture from Mexico that heli
was employed in Moscow by
the USSR. This was condemede
in July 15, 1950, when the
Halperins appeared, at the
American Embassy in Moscow
and presented their United
States passports for renewal.
"Halperin stated that he
had been in the USSR since
ember, 1958, and that he is
employed by the Soviet Acad-
emy of Sciences where he is:
esiding research relating to
" in will be recalled that Hab
perinis something of an au-
then on Latin American
ssins Our information in-
Scates that this probabir 13
the field in which he is work
ing at the presente
The Soviet Academy of
Sciences is directly subordinate
to the Council of Ministers."

Washington toet
1 Scft. 1960

Tharine, Soph. 1.1960 THE WASHINGTON POST
Halperin, U. S. Ex-Aide,
Is Now a Soviet Official

The State Department say's
that Maurice H. Halperin, a
former United States Govern-
ment omcial linked by Senate
Investigators to Soviet esp!.
onage activities, apparently is
serving now as a Latin-Amer
ican adviser to the Russians.

Halperin was head of the
Latin-American Division of
the Office of Strategic Serv-
lees during the latter part of
World War II and later an as-
sociate professor at Boston
University, Before the war, he
had been on the faculty of
the University of Oklahoma.

In 1934 he was dismissed by
Boston University after Sen-
ate Investigators received tes-
timony linking him to a Soviet
apy ring and he refused to
answer a question as to
whether he was a Communist.
Associated Press
The latest information on
Halperin's whereabouts is MAURICE 11. HALPERIN
contained in a report compiled belleved Soviet employe
by the State Department
about persons to whom it has
American Embassy In Mexico
City, where he had gone after
being dismissed by Boston
University, and used it to
leave Mexico on Oct. 13, 1958.
The State Department said
that shortly after Halperin
and his wife departed from
Mexico it received Informa
tion that he was employed in
Moscow by the Soviet Union.
This was confirmed on July
15,1950, when the Halperins
appeared at the American
Embassy in Moscow and pre
sented their U. S passports
for renewal," the Depart
ment's report said, adding:
"Halperin stated that he
had been in the U.S.S.R. since
December, 1958, and that he is
employed by the U.S.S.R.
Academy of Sciences where
he is doing research in the
foreign field, specially, relat
ing to undeveloped countries."

The Departinent recalled
that Halperin was something
of an authority on Latin-
American affairs and said,
been compelled to issue pass- deny passports to Communists
ports under a 1953 decision of or to other persons because of "Our Information Indicates
the Supreme Court.
their pelitical beliefs.
that this probably is the field
The Court held that the De- After the ruling. Halperin in which he is working at the
partment lacks authority to applied for a passport at the present time."

FORMER U. S. AIDE
AT WORK IN SOVIET

Ex-Boston U. Professor Was
in O.S.S, in World War It
1
By JACK KAIMOND
Special to The New York Times

WASHINGTON, Aug. 31
The State Department has
disclosed that a former United
States Intelligence official
in Moscow working for the 90
viet Government.
He is Dr. Maurice Halperin
a former Boston University
professor who was head of the
Latin American Division of the
Office.olf Strategic Services
during World War II.
Dr. Halperin was dismissed
from Boston University in 1930
after he refused to say whether
be he was at Communist. He das
been linked in testimony berore
Senato, Investigators to à So
viet spy ring.
The State Department's.
Clasura a contained in
memorandum la support of a
proposed Aw to deny passports
to persons supporting interna
tional communism,

The Supreme Court ruled in
1958 that passports could not
be denied to Communists or
others because of their political
beilets-
Dr. Halperin and his wife
Edith were then in Mexico
City, the State Department
noted. They had been linked
to the escape behind the Iron
Curtain of Alfred
and
Martha Dodd Stern, who were
under Federal indictmisat for
espionage

After the Supreme Court ru
ing, the Halperins applied to
the United States Embassy in
Continne on Page 7 Colum
Iser 60

FORMER U. S. AIDE |
AT WORK IN SOVIET
Continued From Page 1, Cal 1.
Mexico City for passports and
left Mexico Oct. 13. 1955. At
the time, the State Department
noted, they were about to de
deported from Mexico for Cem-
munist activities. :..
Reports that Dr. Halperin
was working for the Sorter!
Government in Moscow were
confirmed last July 15, the
State Department memorandum
went on, when he and his wife
appeared at the embassy to re
new their passports.
Embassy officials reported
that they had been told by Dr.
Halperin that he and his wife
had been in the Soviet Union
sance December, 1938, and that:
he was working for the Soviet
Academy of Sciences doing!
research in the foreign field
especially relating to under
developed countries."

The State Department, r
calling that Dr. Halperin was
an authority on Latin-American
affairs, added that our mor
mation indicates that this prod-
ably is the field in which he is
working at the present time."
State Department officials
have repeatedly called attention
to the Soviet trade and culturali
offensive in Latin America,
Referring to Dr.: Haleprin's
employment by the Soviet
Academy, the State Depart-
ment abserved that it was di-
rectly subordinate to the Soviet
Council of Ministers.

Requested by Keating
:
11
:
The memorindura was p
pared at the request of Senaton
Nenneth B. Keating. Reputivan
et New. York He and Senator
Thomas J. David Demrat of
Connecticut, as
a
etit that seeks to restre some
of the State Departmeat's
authority to dea
Senator Kesung, who entered
the memorandum in The টো
gressional Record of Aug.
expressed.regret at the time
that his bill was not likely to
be passed in this sessina of
Congress. President Eserier
and State Department officials
have backed the purpose of
the measure,
Meanwhile,
Representative
Francis E. Walter, Democrat
Pennsylvania and chairma
of the Committee on Un-Amerd
can Activity, said he had or
dered a month-long preliminary
Investigation into the case of
two missing employes of the
National Security Agency.

The two employes of the topl
secret coding agency, Beroem
F. Mitchell and William H.!
Martin, are alleged to home
taken valuable secrets to the
Soviet Union.
Kepresentative Waiter sald
that he understood that one of
the missing man had madel
raquiries in their agency about
the U.2 reconnaissance plane
fight over the Soviet Union
before it took place on May L
Mr. Walter said that he res
convinced that the Soviet had
bad advance knowledge of the
ghi Francis Gary Posters!
the U-2 pilot, was downed in
the Soviet Union and subse
quently sentenced to tea years
detention,

Refused to Appear
BOSTON, Aug. 31-Dr. Hal
pera was officially dismissed
from the faculty of Boston
University on Jan. 6, 1954, Не
had refused a summons to ap
pear before a university com
mittee of review to discuss his
case
Dr. Harold C. Case, president
of the university, telephoned
Dr. Halperin in Mexico City
offering to pay his expenses
to Besten and return. But the
professor declined. He ha
been chairman of the univer
sity's Latin-American regional
studies

STAR
Halperin Denies Giving
Reds Advice on Latins
5 Sept 60

MOSCOW, Sept. 3 (AP-Legie Services, an intelligence
Maurice H. Halperta forner organization.
United States Government u After the war. Mr Halperta er due aut my brine in granted, an smbaaryonial
cial who now lives in Moscow got a job with Beton a Macow Slice my arrival Isand.
yesterday accused the @tate Deveruty as a professor. He Dot nave tied inn United States
partment of lesuing a "deliber this job in 1953 because here in returns and my
ate and malicious antorionfused to tell congressional in stary and employer. I sin nos
about ه غلطtúe bare.
In a typewritten slasament bren a member of the Amen met any more than Van Ca
Mr. Halperin sald:
can Communist Party: Sunan American pianist
"Thare is nothing mysterious The bald, mustached 34-aren he performs in a surein
or dubious about my being in year-old Mr. Halperin was to ment-owned concert hall.
Moscow
:vestigators whether he ever had words for the Soviet covera
There is nothus mvaierious passport renewed. The request
Delines to Elaborate
Professor
I am a visiting professor at the USBR Academy apartment house by a news
of Sciences and not the first man and was asked to com
American to be associated with: ment on the State Departo
Last week Benator Keating,
Republican of New York, read,
ment's document.

into the Congressional Record:
a State Department document wchnical dimeuries" in mor
Mr. Halperin first deelired to
which said Mr. Halperin now. thes the story until Monday.
a de
in Moscow and is "working for.
Lha Boviet government
Headed 085s Unh
dous not say brine in Moscow I sin nos met any more than
can Communist Party:
in a Maneew
the USSR Academy of sciences
sed not the first American to
be asociated with as some
of our leadina scientats can
My appointment and
Mr. Halperin appeared pure
nemie arowth of underdeveloped
areas For the State Departinent,
to say that I am advising the!
Russians on Latin American
as a deliberate and ma
licious distorsion.
"Specifically, I am making a
study of the Loun-American.
economy 1943 מנד to the c
of 958. When ray book is pub-

