104-10175-10110
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City
16-3

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Operational/Meeting with KDACETONE-1
16-3
Reference: MEXICO CITY 23232

1. In accordance with a policy decision to keep DKHERALD contact
with U. S. business representatives discreet, a small luncheon was held
in lieu of the customary formal briefings in the Headquarters building.
KUACETONE-1, IDENTITY 1, David C. HIGBY and Floyd N. AIMONET
attended the luncheon which was characterized by cordiality and candor.
KDACETONE-1 waited until the conclusion of the meeting to raise his
current favorite subject, that of countering the leftist propaganda
contained in SIEMPRE. Fortunately, HIGBY was forewarned and
effectively turned around the thrust of the effort upon KDACETONE-1's
shoulders, without offending him. IDENTITY impressed HIGBY with
IDENTIY 2 to "do things" on our behalf but was convinced by HIGBY
that the best way to approach the problem was through the compartmented
use of individual members, rather than through IDENTITY 2 as an
organization.

2. Discussions were held concerning Mexican affairs as well as
Hemispheric trends. In the former category, our guests were most
disturbed about the nationalization process in Mexico and enumerated

IDENTITIES (USC)

3-COS, Mexico City (W/Att. USC)

RECORD COPY

22
HMMW-19453
11 MAY 1973

SECRET
201-030939

DC/WH/Raymond J. Swiderzak 5/8/73

C/WH/L 9/5/73 John C. Murray

DISPATCH

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF.
DISPATCH
SECRET
HMMW-19453

the latest cases with some alarm. KDACETONE-1 repeated his prediction
that President ECHEVERRIA would effectively nationalize most private
investment in Mexico before the end of his term.

3. The meeting was judged effective and afforded HIGBY the
opportunity to lay the ground work for his future relations with
IDENTITY 2 members, while satisfying the guests' need for reassurances
that our goals were parallel. They appeared happy with the conversations
despite the informality.

Floyd N. AIMONET

SECRET

201-030999

14-00000

UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: HMMW-19453

IDENTITY #1 - George Blake, V. P. of American Chamber of
Commerce

IDENTITY #2 - American Chamber of Commerce Mexico

SECRET
RECORD COPY
HMMW-19453
201-030999
