104-10130-10343 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

558BP 10484877
XXTDY EOD OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
PCS
INVITATIONAL

TRAVEL ORDER

NAME
Boris D. Tarasoff (FDD)
OFFICIAL STATION SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
Washington, D.C. OFFICE PHONE
GRADE G6-11

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE
Washington, D.C. to Mexico City and return.

MODE: Air RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
PURPOSE: TOY Replacement for Station Employee while on home leave. Do Not Reproduce
Area Classified Category A

TRAVEL DURATION PER DIEM ALLOWANCE AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
BEGIN END DOMESTIC FOREIGN CENTS PER MI.
NOT TO EXCEED CENTS PER MI.
15 Aug. '60 $ MAXIMUM OTHER (See below) COST-BY COM- AS MORE
MON CARRIER ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOV'T.
ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

90 days TDY
99
Light State Cover
[ ]

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL
NAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP TRANSPORTATION REQUEST $1400.00 (02)
CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
AUTHORIZATION
SHIPMENT TEMPORARY
STORAGE
SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED
OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.
I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
ACCOMPANIED UNACCOMPANIED
LBS AND MODE LBS AND MODE CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

40 Air
1135-5700-3000

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED DATE SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS
YES ACCOUNTING DUE DATE
ADVANCE RETURN NO

COORDINATION

SIGNATURE TITLE & COMPONENT DATE TYPED NAME AND TITLE COMPONENT
Heller J CCD 7/1/16 Charles A. Hoore

SIGNATURE J. C. KING DATE hief,
TYPED NAME AND TITLE COMPONENT
TY AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL 5 July 1960
SIGNATURE
hief, Ops.

FORM 540 OBSOLETE 5 July 1960
3-59 PREVIOUS (28-48)
MFG 5-59 EDITIONS.
VPV
SECRI
