14-00000

104-10175-10176 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

19 AUG 1964

TO	:	Director
		Federal Bureau of Investigation
		Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM	:	Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:	Lyle STUART

Reference is made to your memorandum dated 1 June 1964, in which you provided this office with several questions you wished to have passed to Miss Viola June COBB regarding Lyle STUART. There follows the information provided by do you inquiry:

1. Regarding Lyle STUART, Juan Jose AREVALO, and Antikomunismo en America Latina:

Early in the spring of 1962, in Mexico, AREVALO told me that STUART was prodding him about getting another of his books translated, to take advantage of the publicity around The Shark and the Sardines. I was already far beyond speaking terms with SI ALT and therefore declined to have anything further to do with him. About three months later, AREVALO told me that STUART was going to publish Antikomunismo en America Latina and that a young American student, married to a Mexican, Angela delli SANTE ARROCHA (who had written Arevalo, pensador contemporaneo, published by Coste Amic, 1962, financed by Als Radical Revolucionario de El Salvador) was doing the translation into English. Early in 1963, AREVALO told me that the translation hadn’t been satisfactory and therefore STUART had obtained a re-translation, by Charleton BEALS.

When STUART was here in Mexico in June, he told Dr. OSEGUEDA that he was very happy about the way the book was selling.

Inasmuch as STUART has paid AREVALO only 10 per cent of moneys received by STUART on the Shark and the Sardines sales (in contrast with some book contracts in which the author receives 10 per cent of the money represented by number of copies sold multiplied by the retail sales price) I would assume he is no more generous with Antikomunismo.

CS COPY

SECRET
201-2788414

14-00000

I know of no affiliations of STUART with foreign political parties of government. His attempts to get close to Fidel CASTRO in 1960 were motivated by a desire to exploit the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original interest in The Shark and the Sardines was apparently motivated by money-making interests and by the hope that he might spark a sensation - exactly what he did manage to do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calculate that there might be libel suits possible against the firms and the newspapers he could provoke to attack him.

The original contract of AREVALO with STUART was superseded by another in November of 1961, granting STUART certain rights with regard to other foreign language editions of The Shark and the Sardines and, I believe, establishing 
Hold hero first option on other ARKVALO books translated into English.

Information about STUART’s dealings with AREVALO and whatever others, could be obtained (with cutie) from Eileen BRANT, who was his editor at the time of the first contact with AREVALO. She subsequently broke with him because of deep and bitter resentment against him, then returned not too long ago to collaborate with him. She is his wife’s sister. She is certainly working with him now only because he finally offered her a little better pay. For her to have changed her mind about him would be almost impossible, I believe, in view of the long history of incidents that had brought her to have contempt for him, at the time I knew her in 1961. She knows his operation inside-out. In order to get information from her, it would be absolutely necessary to approach her from some angle that would give no hint of government investigation. She is very gregarious. She is a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, New York single woman (unless her status has changed since I knew her). If contacted by somebody she would assume to be a writer, and who would be a bit friendly with her and see her off-hours, she would probably talk freely about STUART. But she is quite clever and rather worldly in some respects, so that must be kept in mind in case she is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY DEEP AND LONGTIME NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She was active in liberal activities in Chicago, and if I remember correctly, although she is certainly not communist, she considered herself a little jeopardized by the McCarthy period.

Angela Delli SANTE-ARROCHE could also be contacted, of course.

SECRET

14-00000

2. Regarding Lyle STUART, Dr. Raul OSEGUEDA, Bartolome COSTA Amic, and Mario MONTEFORTE Toledo:

Dr. OSEGUEDA apparently has had a secret longing to get something of his own printed in English. He seized upon the opportunity of commenting BEALS’ introduction to Antikomunismo in order to write to STUART this spring. STUART wrote very cordially back to OSEGUEDA, hoping to meet him on a trip to Mexico in June. When OSEGUEDA confessed to me his correspondence with STUART, he sought to make me see it as an attempt to speak with STUART about the royalties STUART has never paid me.

When Dr. OSEGUEDA finally did see STUART here in Mexico during the book congress in June, he only very timidly and very, very briefly touched upon the royalty problem, and indeed went to a great deal of trouble to serve STUART by introducing MONTEFORTE Toledo. (STUART had expressed interest in getting in touch with some publishers and writers.) OSEGUEDA bustled about, taking OSEGUEDA and MONTEFORTE Toledo to lunch with STUART, even managed to get the MONTEFORTE Toledos to invite STUART to dinner at their apartment. There were tentative discussions of collaborating in the distribution of COSTA Amic books in the United States and of publishing some book of MONTEFORTE Toledo’s.

However, both COSTA Amic and the MONTEFORTE Toledos told me that they found STUART offensively vulgar and were not at all enthusiastic about having anything to do with him.

Two weeks ago, OSEGUEDA sketched the outline of a book (contemporary history of 1.S. and Latin American relations) he hopes STUART will want to publish, and sent the outline up to him.

CECI-316/00789-64 18 August 1964
WH/I/C. Bustos:chk BASIC: HMMU 24092
Distribution: PROJECT: NONE
Orig. & 1 - Addressee LIAISON: NONE
1 - RI (201-278841)
1 - CI/LIA
1 - CI/R&A
1 - WH/1
1 - WH/PO/A

SECRET
201-

14-00000

TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : MEXICO CITY
ACTION: WH
INFO : VR

SECRET141643Z
DIR CITA MEXI 0582
LICOOKY
REF A. DIR 40439
B. HM1812041
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
14. AUG DIN 51668

LICOOKY/I ANSWERS TO REF B SENT IN HMMA 24392 ON 11 AUG.

SECRET

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
C
Copy No.

14-00000

DISPATCH

TO
Chief, WH Division

INFO.
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
Answers to Inquiries Submitted in Reference
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
WAIVED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Ref: HMG 12041

Forwarded herewith are answers to the inquiries forwarded in reference dispatch submitted by subject of 201-278341 on 6 July 1964.

Attachment:
As stated above
Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
13 C/WHD w/att

CS COPY
14-00000

SEGRET

July 6, 1964

LYLE STUART
AREVALO
"ANTIKOMUSISMO EN AMERICA LATINA"

Early in the spring of 1962, here in Mexico, Arévalo told me that Stuart was prodding him about getting another of his books translated, to take ad-vantage of the publicity around "The Shark and the Sardines". I was already far beyond speaking terms with Stuart and therefore declined to have anything further to do with him. About three months later, Arévalo told me that Stuart was going to publish "Antikomunismo en America Latina and that a young American student, married to a Mexican, Angela delli Sante Arrocha (who had written "Arevalo, Fensador Contemporaneo"; vas doing the translation into English. Early in 1963, Arévalo told me that the translation hadn’t been satisfactory and therefore Stuart had obtained a re-translation, by Charleton Beals.

When Stuart was here in Mexico in June, he told Dr. Osequeda that he was very happy about the wey the bock was selling.

Inasmuch as Stuart has paid Arévalo only 10 percent of moneys received by Stuart on "The Shark and the Sardines" sales (in contrast with some book con-tracts in which the author receives 1.0 percent of the money represented by number of copies sold multiplied by the retail sales price) I would assume he is no more generous with "Antikomunismo". I can ask Dr. Osegueda the exact teres, but I haven't been able to see Osegueda this week.

I know of no affiliations of Stuart with foreign political parties of government. His attempts to get close to Fidel Castro in 1960 were motivated by a desire to expicit the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original interest in "The Shark and the Sardines" vas. apparently motivated by money-making interest and by the hope that he might spark a sensation - exactly- what he did manage to do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calcu-late that there might be libel sxits possible against the firms and the news-papers he could provoke to attack him.

I am sure you have it on file, but I will enclose a copy of Arevalo's original contract with Stuart. It was superceded by another in November of 1961, granting Stuart certain rights with regard to other foreign language editions of "The Shark and the Sardines" and, I believe, establishing that Stuart should have first option of other Arévalo books translated into English.

Information about Stuart's dealings with Arévalo and whatever others could be obtained WITH GULLE from Eileen Brant, who vas his editor at the time of the

* Published by Costa Amic, 1962. Financed by Als Radical Revolucionario de El Salvador.

ES COPY

SECRET

14-00000

-2-
SECRET

first contact with Arevalo, subsequently broke with his because of deep and bitter resentment against him, then returned not too long ago to collaborate with him. She is his wife's sister. She is certainly working with him now only because he finally offered her a little bette: pay. For her to have changed her mind about him would be almost impossible, I believe, in view of the long history of incidents that had brought her to have contempt for him, at the time I knew her in 1961. She knows his operation inside-out. In order to get information from her, it would be absolutely necessary to approach her from some angle that would give no hint of government investigation. She is very gregarious. She is a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, New York single woman (unless her status has changed since I knew her). By somebody she would assume to be a writer, and who would be a bit friendly with her and see her off-hours, she would probably talk freely about Stuart. But she is quite clever and rather worily in some respects, so that must be kept in mind in case she is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY DEEP AND LONGTIME NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She was active in liberal activities in unicago, actly, thich cho da containiv not communist, she considered herself a little jeopardized by the Mc Carthy period.

Angela Deli Sante-Arroche could be contacted, too, of course. I vill look for her address at Costa Amic's office and pass it along.

SECRET

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
27 J-E-C-R-E-T
33
NO INDEX
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TO MEXICC CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
UNIT : WH/1
EXT 4506
DATE: 31 JULY 1964

TO: MEXI INFO
REDCOAT LCIMPROVE

REF: MEXI 0306 (IN 30508)* CITE DIR B9266 7
LICOOKY-1 OA AMENDED PERMIT HER USE TO DEVELOP AND ASSESS
KUKHARENKO. SHOULD NOT BE USED MAKE RECRUITMENT SINCE NOT EXPERIENCED

RECRUITER, FAILURE WOULD COMPLETELY BLUR. HER. To SOS OSCE and SINCE HER

RELATIONSHIP WITH LINLUCK KNOWN, COULD BE UNFAVORABLE BLOWBACK ON
LINLUCK.

SINCE SOS COULD PRESUMABLY COME IN CONTACT MIH LINLUCK
THROUGH LICOOKY-1, STATION MAY CONSIDER TIPPING OFF LINLUCK AT OPPORTUNE

TIME TO BE CAREFUL OF LICOOKY-1'S DOINGS AS CONTINUING STATION P
INVESTIGATION OF HER DISCLOSES SHE ASSOCIATING WITH SOVS. phone

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Requested permission use LICOOKY-1 to develop high priority SOV target.

CI/ICG/Burke (in draft)
CI/OA/Lally (in draft)
SR/O/WH Kasparovich Draft
WH/POA/Priest Prizet

RELASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
AUTOMENTKATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE TSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
27 SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH8
INFO : DIP WH/KAS, RI/AN, 2.1, FilINT, CI/OPS, CI, VR

SECRET 2323132
TEGU INFO.DIR GUAT SALV CITE MEXI 3431
28 JULEX IN 37910

REF TEI
1. LICOOKY-1 SAID 27 JULY ISABEL A. GUILLEN ZELAYA, SISTER OF:

LORENZO ZELAYA'S WIFE, TOLD HER MARIO SOSA NAVARRO AND SON,
CARLOS, WHO SECOND YEAR MEDICAL STUDENT AT UNAM IN MEXICO CITY,
CAME TOOKIO NO. 35 NIGHT 26 JULY. ISABEL RUNS BOARDING HOUSE THIS
ADDRESS AND L-1 NOW LIVING THERE.

2. SWLUCK-1 SAID 27 JULY RICARDO FREIJI, PCH MEMBER NOW LIVING
MEXICO CITY, TOLD HIM HAD TALKED WITH SOSA ABOUT 20 JULY

3. INDEX.

SECRET
vc/s Comment: Security MEASURES TAKEN by PCH.
TO PROTECT PARTY MEMBERS RETURNING FROM CUBA.

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassificatio
Copy No

14-00000

CLFIED MESSAGE
FROM:
HEXICO CITY
SECRET
TO
: DIRECTOR
RE
CTO
INFO : 003, C/CI, C/CIA 5, VR

SECRET 2423322
250002363
DIR PANA BOITE KEXI 2374

(133739)
277
.
5.4 4382
17 EL GUERRERO 1930 STILL EDI AND PRESENT ADDRESS.
2. LATEST MEXI 0370 ORLANDO OUART SUNTANA IS HN-375 12 DES
63 WHICH STATES HE TRYING COME TO KOI, 7 NO INFO HIS ACTUAL AFT
STATION DID NOT RECEIVE KIMY 1002.

SECRET

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

DATE
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
24 July 1964 dlr

TO: WH/1/Mexico - W.J. Kaufman.
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
18/ Eduard P... Brown
SUBJECT:
LICOOKYL
IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR FEQUEST FOR APPROYAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFCRUATION CHECKED BELOD, OR REVIER INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRO 1 FIELD TRACES OPERATIONAL Aハン DIVISION TRACES RESULTS OF TEC-ICAL INTERROGATION

PRO 11 RI TRACES REVIEW OF STAFFD 303SIER FERIEN OF STAFF'S COLLATERAL INFORMATION REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT 10
REVIER OF SEC. OFF CONCURRENCE MERG AT 51/04 REVIEW OF FBI REFERT AT CI/OA REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

GREEN LIST FIRST SAGINS. FORM
NOTICE: SECOND THIRD AND
TTHERS (See Kenaris)

I have discussed with Paul Burke, DC/CI/ICG, Herco's request for amendment of OA to use LICOOKY-1 against the Soviet official. We both are of the opinion that she can be used for development of the target to determine his susceptibility to recruitment, but that she should not be used to make the actual recuitment should the matter develop to that point, due to these considerations: (1) She is not a recruiter, never has rade a recruitment. (2) Odds are she would be blown to the Soviets, since we must consider that the odds for successful recruitment of a Soviet official are not favorable. (3) Eer relationship with LDLUCK in Mexico is fairly well known, so that there could be an unfavorable blow back on LINLUCK.

In authorizing her use in the developmental role, Eurke would like for Station to be informed that it should tell LINLUCK that Sta- tion's continuing investigation of LICOOEY-L discloses her association with Soviets; therefore, he should be very careful in his relationship with her.

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
45 SECRET
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WHЕ
INFO : Ca, clors, Calka, CHOA, FI, SR7, VR

SECRET 222322Z
TEGU INFO DIR CITE MEXI 2348

1. DUE POSSIBLE USE LICOOKY-1 IN REDCOAT OP, HER FRIENDSHIP
WITH ABEL CUENCA MARTINEZ AND WIFE, AND HER MANY CONTACTS AND USEFULLNESS
AMONG CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMIES AND LEFTISTS MEXICO, STATION DOES NOT
WISH INVOLVE HER IN OP AGAINST LUIS MANUEL ZUNIGA SARAVIA PER REFS.

2. RE PARA 4 REF C AGREE COLD APPROACH HAS LIMITED CHANCE
SUCCESS BUT APPEARS HE MOST SUSCEPTIBLE NOW AND DOUBT THAT OP
SUGGESTED REF B WOULD BE WORTHWHILE. VIEW HIS DECISION REMAIN
MEXI AND POSSIBILITY HE MAY ATTEMPT WREST CONTROL PCH FROM
BEJARANO, PROBABLY UNSUCCESSFULLY, HE MAY WELL TAKE SOME ACTION
NEAR FUTURE MAKING REHABILITATION IN FUTURE

IMPOSSIBLE.
SECRET

CIS COMMENT: REQUESTED MEXI CAREFULLY REVIEW LICIOKY ROLE RESCENT
AND ZUNIGA OPS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

14-00000

CODE: C. Bustos
UNIT WH/2 1
EXT 4507
DATE: 20 July 64
TO MEXICO CITY
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF: WA
MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
INFO: TEGUCIGALPA

SRT, CA, CI/OPS, CHIC 2, CYOA,
VR
TO
NEXI
INFO TEGU
REF
Α. ΜΕ: 0288 (IN 29790)
B. TEJ 5531 (IN 30664)
36752

ROUTING
5
6
2
7
3
4
6
21ROUTINE 11
2

SIG CEN

CITE DIR

77
1. TU SUGGESTIONS REF BRE USE LICOOKY IMPLY HER
INVOL IN OP ZIINIGA TO POINT OF RECRUITMENT. (FOR
INFO TEGJ, LICCOK HAS LIMITED CLEARANCE WHICH WOULD REQUIRE SPECIAL
AMENDMENT TO PERM HER BECOME ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN SUCH OP).
2. MEXI HAS ALSO REQUESTED SPECIAL PERMISSION USE LICOOKY
IN REDCOAT OP OUTI NED MEXI 0306 (IN 30508) AND HDQS HAS RESERVATIONS
INVOLVING HER ANY MORE THAN MERE INFORMANT IN ZUNIGA OP.
3. REQUEST MEXI CAREFULLY REVIEW LICOOKY ROLE REDCOAT AND
ZUNIGA OPS AND ADVISE ITS DESIRES.

4. HDQS AGREES REF B THAT COLD APPROACH ZUNIGA AT THIS
TIME NOT DIS DESIRABLE, AND THAT ANY APPROACH IDEALLY SEOULD BE MADE
AFTER INFO COLLECTED AND ASSESSMENT MADE.

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER
END OF MESSAGE
C/WH/2 ali
WH/Honduras stiker
CI/ICG EL. &C. Spens
W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1
GROUP
Eachurdod be sumangie
downgrading and
decisodica
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATINS
OFFICER
Copy Na

14-00000

20 July 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION : Mr. Lally

SUBJECT : Amendment of the Operational Approval for LICOOKY-1 (201-278841)

1. It is requested that the Operational Approval for LICOOKY-1 be amended to include authority for Mexico City Station to utilize her as an access asset against a Soviet press attache and Soviet information bulletin Representative.

2. It should be noted that the 29 June amendment of LICOOKY-1's OA has not implemented since that target's visit to Mexico City never materialized.

W. J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1

he peani

14-00000

TO : DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY
ACTION: *SR 7

INFO : CI/CM, WH 7, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

1

Tel Hap
when of ohed

L SECRET 171724 Z
DIR CITE YEXI 2325
RED COAT
REF DIR 31925
17 JUL 64 IN 30508

1. HAVE COMPLETED STUDY ON ONE OF STATION'S PRIME SOV TARGET
FOR DEVELOPED, PRESS ATTACHE AND SOV DIFO BULLETIN REP, SERGEY
SEM YO NO VI CH KUCHARENKO. SEE NO OPPORTUNITY UTILIZE LATTER'S LOCAL
CONTACTS FOR ACCESS SINCE ALL DECIDEDLY LEFTIST OR COYMIE.

2. REQUEST EOS APPROVAL DIRECT LICOOKY-1 AGAINST K, FOR SAME
REASONS AND POSSIBILITIES CITED KING21 AFTER APPROVAL BTAINED,
MEXI WILL DEVELOP SPECIFIC PLAN TO FACILITATE HER INITIAL ACCESS.

3. FYI L-1 WAS NOT ADVISED OF AECCITASE OP.
SECRET

C/S COMMENT: ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR REDWOOS USED.
**AMENDED LICOOKY-1 CA FOR USE AGAINST MOEYSH.

Tury-Call Nucle
inthies: 13.15

Jouen nevin OA.
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
GROUP
Esaluded from كليديعية
doungrading and

14-00000

TO
ここ、こん
CLASSIED MESSAGE
SECRET

FROM MELICO City

ACTION WHE
10 • CI, CHOFS, Cifon. =Rq. Ft, Fi/INT 2, PIJARLYR

SECRET 1513222Z
TEOR CITE ΞΧΙ 1283

:: 17863)
FEJL29790

LUCK-SA: 15 JULY DIONICIO BEJARANO RAMOS AND RICOSERTO
PADILLA RUSH TOLD HIM AND OTHER MUNDURA: ww NANE ZUIGA SARAVIA,
WHO RETURNED HEXI 24 JUNE FROM SOVIET UNICS, DONALD AT RECENT POH
CENTRAL COMMITTEE PLENUM HELD KOI AND REDUCED TO SIMPLE CELL MEMBER.
PADILLA SAID THIS DONE BECAUSE OF KAAY ERRORS ZUNIGA HAS MADE.
KRS ABEL CUENCA MARTINEZ, ZUNIGA'S KOTER, TOLD LICOOKY-1 RECENTLY
ZUNIGA HEALTH FINE BUT HE HAVING SERIOUS "PRELESS WHICH WORRY HER.

2. JULY 15 1-1, WHO ORDERED BY DOCTOR MOVE FROM AFI SHE RENTED
RECENTLY BECAUSE IT DAMP AND COLD, SAID ZURISA AND WIFE ROVED INTO
AFI L-I VOCARD THICH LOCATED CALLE RID TAXESSES 14, APT 3, NEX
CITY 1, TELEPONE 46-23-88. THIS ARRANGED BY MRS CUENCA THEN SHE
LEARNED L-I KOVING. ACC MAS CUENCA, ZUNICA AND WIFE PLAN LIVE MED
CITY AND HE LOOKING FOR VORK. ZWIGA'S WIFE NOW TAKING IN SEING
HELP DEFRAY FAMILY EXPENSES, AND.S-1 SAYS ZUNIGAS TRYING SELL

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Copy.

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

129193 FAG 2
BUSINESS THEY CAN IN SAN PEDRO SLA.
3. JULY 13 L-1 HAD DINNER VITA MRS CUENCA, ABEL CUENCA, ZUNIGA
AND WIFE. L-1, WHO HAD SEEN ZUNIGA BRIEFLY AT CUENCA HOME JUST BED
ZUNIGA LEFT FOR SOVIET UNION ON J1 JAN 64, SAYS HIS ATTITUDE
TOWARD HER HAS CHANGED. HE NOW FRIENDLY, TALKATIVE AND APPEARS
WANT SE FRIEND, BUT HAS NOT MENTIONED PCH OR ANY DIFFICULTIES TO
L-1.

4. BELIEVE ZUWIGA, AS RESULT PCH ACTION AND NEED FOR MONEY, MAY
BE SUSCEPTIBLE RECRUITMENT APPROACH. COULD PROVIDE.
S

VALJABLE INTEL AND OP INFO ON PCH AND PCH LEADERS ÁS OF PRESENT
TINE, AND IF RESPONSIVE TO GLIDANCE COULD PROBABLY REGAIN HIGH LEVEL
POSITION WITHIN ONE YEAR OR SC.
5. IF TECU INTERESTED BELIEVE APPROACH COULD BE MADE VITHOUT
UIDUE RISK L-1 SECURITY. USING LIRICE TEAN, APPROACH COULD BE MADE
ON STREET CR AT OR NEAR CUENCA HOME WHERE ZUNIGA AND WIFE TAKING HATY
THEIR MEALS. CUENCA HOME WELL KNOWN, AND IN VIEW APPROACH TO PCH TEBER
IN. JAN 64 DOLET ZUNIGA WOULD CONNECT APPROACH WITH LA-1.
IF APPROACH MADE COULD USE OLIVER Q. WIMPHEN BUT DUE HIS DEEP
INVOLVEMENT RECRUITMENT OPS AGAINST POH TARGETS WOULD PREFER TEGU
OR HOS PROVIDE RECRUITER.
6. 1:0 EX.

SECRET
XC/S CommeNT: ACCORDING SWLUCK/ WIS MANUCL
ZUNIGA SARAVIA ARRIVED MEXI 26 JUNE FROM
:
USSR.

SECRET

14-00000

ORIG: C.Fine:bc
UNIT: SR/O/
EXT : 6412
DATE: 26 June 1964
TO : MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: SR 7
INFO:

INDEX
NO INDEX
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
FILE IN OS FILE NO.
SECRET
201-286805
RIO DE JANEIRO

CI, CI/CPS,CI/OA, FISH 7/VR

TO
MEXI
INFO
RIOD
31926

REDWOOD AECOTTAGE
REF: A. MEXI 0021 (IN 14984)*
B. RIOD 5073 (IN 12837)**

1. OA FOR LICOOKY/1 AMENDED TO AUTHORIZE ONE TIME USE
AGAINST KOBYSH AS PROPOSED PARA ONE REF.

Νέλεση τ
2.KOBYSH BORN 27 JULY 28 POLTAVA OBLAST. WIFE EMMA. SON
SERGEY AGE ABOUT 6. FROM PHONE TAP INFO LEARNED SUBJ HAS OCCASIONAL
DISAGREEMENTS WIFE. SHE ACCUSES HIM INFIDELITY... WIFE ON BAD TERMS
OTHER SOVS RIO BECAUSE SON SUFFERS UNDERTERMINED AMOEBA DISEASE
WHICH OTHER SOVS FEAR COMMUNICABLE. HENCE THEY HAVE THEIR CHILDREN
SHUN SON KOBYSH. ALSO AGGRAVATING SITUATION IS WIFE SUFFERING
HEPATITIS.

3. CAREER SUBJ: MEMBER RADIO DELEGATION NORWAY 54. ASSIGNED
NOSCOW 55. ALSO 55 VISITED SWEDEN AND DENMARK WITH SOV PIANIST.
RETURNED NORWAY 56. ASSIGNED NEW YORK SEPTEMBER TO NOVEMBER 60.
MEMBER KRUSHCHEV PARTY MEETING KENNEDY VIENNA JUNE 61. ASSIGNED
BRAZIL CIRCA AUGUST 62.

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
Pectusin an automat
Sregring and
fecation
ADTHENTICATING
OFFICER
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy Nc.

14-00000

ORIG:
UNIT:
:
EXT
DATE:
INDER
NO DEX
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
FILE EN CS FILE NO.

ROUTING
4
5
6:
TO :
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:

INFO:
TO INFO

PAGE 2
PAGE 2
RE PARA 3 REF B: FYI ONLY FROM SENSITIVE HQ SOURCE
UNDER KGB CONTROL IT LEARNED SUBJ WAS RECALLED FROM USA TO USSR
BECAUSE OF INDISCREET PHONE CALL TO MOSCOW WHICH RIS HAD RECORDED
AND CRITICIZED ON GROUNDS SECURITY. ALSO WHILE DUTY OFFICER
RADIO MOSCOW INADVERTENTLY PERMITTED BROADCAST OLD TAPE RECORDING
LAUDING HAMMARSKJOLD AT TIME OFFICIAL SOV LINE JUST OPPOSITE.
(NO CONFIRMATION INFO THIS PARA RECEIVED THUS FAR.)

END OF MESSAGE

*Basis ker B info, believe LICOOKY-I would be excellent logical
and feasible access to Subj
** (Subj) is Izvestiya and
Radio Moscow representative

C/WH
SECRET
