14-00000
104-10227-10121 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(TYPED O/DDF) CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FROM DIRECTOR ROUTING

CONF IG DEFERRED

INFO DCI, D/OCI, DOP, COP, A2DP/A, EE 4, FC 5, 14, ROUTINE

AF 4, HE 4, WH 4, s/c 2 PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

IO ΕΣΕ ΑΤΤAGHED LIST INFO CITE DIR 31917-
BOOK MESSAGE 57347

FROM ASCHAM

1. AS RESULT OF DEFEAT OF THE CUBAN OPERATION CONSIDERABLE

COMMENT CONCERNING KUBARK NOW BEING MADE IN PRESS AND IN CONGRESS.

MANY PROPOSALS ARE BEING AND WILL BE RAISED CONCERNING KUBARK AND

OTHER ACTIVITIES IN THIS AREA OF ODYOKE. ACTUALLY MUCH MIS-

INFORMATION GENERALLY REPORTED AND WHILE SOME PROPOSALS ARE FROM

RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS, THERE ARE MANY DISTORTIONS OF ACTUAL

SITUATION. DETALS OF CUBAN OPERATION ARE SUFFICIENTLY COVERED IN

DEPCIRTEL 1637 AND SUGGEST YOU OBTAIN THIS FOR YOUR INFO. IT IS MY VII V.

THAT KUBARK ACQUITTED ITSELF WELL IN MOST RESPECTS, ALTHOUGH I PLA
ΤΟ MEMIT ALL SEAL FALTS TO AS AVAILA

FULL REVIEW OF OPERATION AFTER REASONABLE PERIOD HAS FLAPSED IN

ΤΗΕ ΜΕΑNTIME PRESIDENT HAS DIRECTED GENERAL MAXWELL TAYLOR 10 TA

CLOSE LOOK AT ALL PRACTICES AND PROGRAMS IN AREA OF MILITARY AND

PARAMILITARY, GUERRILLA AND ANTI-GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES WHICH FALL

SHORT OF OUTRIGHT WAR. HE WILL GIVE SPECIAL ATTENTION TO LESSONS

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERs ACTRENTICATING OFFICER
COpr
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
FROM RECENT EVENTS IN CUBA. IN THIS EFFORT HE WILL BE ASSISTED BY
ATTORNEY GENERAL, CILLEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS, AND MYSELF. HIS
REPORT WILL BE SUBMITTED TO THE PRESIDENT BY MAY 15.

2. WHILE IN NO WAY WISHING TO LESSEN THE SERIOUSNESS OF DEFEAT IN
CUBA BOTH FOR KUBARK AND PBPRIME, I WISH TO ASSURE EVERYBODY THAT

OUR PRIMARY EFFORT SHOULD BE TO LEARN FROM EXPERIENCE, GOOD OR EAD.
FURTHER, UNLESS INSTRUCTED BY COMPETENT AUTHORITY TO THE CONTRARY,

EVERYBODY SHOULD CONTINUE WITH HIS PRESENT ACTIVITIES AND PROJE CTS.

FOR YOUR INFO, WE HAVE FULLY BRIEFED APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF
CONGRESS ON THE CUBAN OPERATION AND IN FACT HAVE MORE THAN EVER

BEFORE DURING THIS SESSION OF CONGRESS KEPT THE ARMED SERVICES AND

APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES ADVISED ON DAILY BASIS OF VITAL INTELLIGENCE,

PERTINENT OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND PROBLEMS. WE WILL ENDEABOR
ENDEAVOR
TO ADVISE YOU PROMPTLY OF PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS IN WASHINGTON

TELPASING OFFICES COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICES

Capy Na
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
..:
14-00000
DATE
10
•
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF,
INFO.

10
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IDINC

ROUTING
EFERSSOI
ROUTINE
INITIALS
PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL INMALL
IMMEDIATE

PAGE THREE
INFO CITE DIR
THAT AFFECT KUBARK, BUT STRESS THAT YOU RECOGNIZE THAT REPORTS
ARE OFTEN MISLEADING.
IN PUBLIC MEDIA DEOPIPPONIESTING

END OF MESSAGE

DDCI (in draft)
COPS (in draft)
ALLEN W. PULLES RICHARD M. BISSEΙ...
RELEASING OFFIC
COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
SECRET
Copy M
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROM.BITED.
:
14-00000
n.
ONE
0:
DIRECTOR
SCART

OPERATIONAL PITIALS
IMMEDIATE
OUT 52128
D1R 37947

ALGIERS INFO VIENNA OKINAWA
BRAZZAVILLE FRANKFURT SAIPAN
ADDIS ABA BA ATHENS SINGAPORE
ACCRA BERN ΤΑΙΡΕΙ
CONAKRY NICOSIA
MELBOURNE BANGKOK
ABIDJAN RANGOON SAIGON
NAIROBI PANOM PΕΝΗ VIENTIANE
:

MONROVIA FONOLULU KABUL
TRIPOLI HONG KONG COLOMBO
RABAT DJAKARTA NEW DELHI
LAGOS TOKYO TEHRAN
LEOPOLDVILLE SEOUL BAGHDAD
MOGADISCIO KUALA LUMPUR :
KHARTOUM WELLINGTON AMMAI
TUNIS MANILA BEIRUT
PRETORIA FATMANDU

ALIMENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy Nio
14-00000
.
C
:
.
KARACH MADRID PANAMA CITY
JIDDA STOCI.HOLM ASGUACION
ANKARA BUENOS AIRES LIMA
CAIED LA PAZ AJA GILY
SAN SALVADOR
BRUSSELS SIO DE JANEIRO A:CION
MON VIDEO
OTTAWA SANTIAGO Li..A
CA CALACAS
SAN SALVADO
COPENHAGEN S.GOTA

LONDON SAN JOSE HOWVIDEO

HELSINKI CIUDAD TRUJILLO CAS
:
PARIS COTTO
:
PARIS (LCPIPIT) GUATEMALA CITY
REYKJAVIK
ROME ATAL PACE
IFOUCICALPA

THE RAGUE CITY
OSLO

NOSSIT
SEC...
REPRODUCTION E
C
