104-10147-10304 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 King assassination

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
AGE
COI ACP TOG TPE MRO DCI
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 HSCA PAGE 1
CLASSIFICATION OF
SECRET PAGES 2
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR Media CITE HSCA
STAFF 161827Z DIRECTOR MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
125981
CONF: SA/00/10: INFO: FILE ELURB, IP/PMS, LA8225
INDEX DISSEM BY: D
2004, ADOTDO, DOOFERO NO INDEX
RETURN TO PER
IP FILES #

TO: LISBONG INFO LONDON, MEXICO CITY. Y
RYBAT UNINTEL RNVIEW Y

1 U.S HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SELECT COMMITTEE ON
ASSASSINATIONS WHO CURRENTLY INVESTIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES
SURROUNDING ASSASSINATIONS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND DR. MARTIN
LUTHER KING HAS TOLD. STATE THAT THEY INTEND TO PURSUE LEADS IN
PORTUGAL UK AND MEXICO RELATING TO JAMES EARL RAY, CURRENTLY
SERVING TIME FOR KING MURDER. THEY BASING THIS INTEREST ON
INFORMATION THAT RAY WAS IN LISBON BRIEFLY IN MAY 1968, SHORTLY
BEFORE HIS APPREHENSION IN LONDON IN JUNE 1968.

2. MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR
OF COMMITTEE SAYS SELECT COMMITTEE TOLD STATE THAT HE WANTS TO
ESTABLISH "CORDIAL RELATIONSHIP" WITH APPROPRIATE PORTUGUESE
NATIONAL POLICE AND HOPES TO ENLIST THEIR ASSISTANCE INCLUDING
ACCESS TO THEIR FILES AND IN LOCATING AND INTERVIEWING POTENTIAL
WITNESSES.

3. DEPARTMENT HAS SOLICITED EMBASSY SUGGESTIONS AS TO HOW
BLAKEY SHOULD PROCEED. Y

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
22228

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:
OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
AGE
COI ACP TOG TPE MRO DCI
ROUTING
OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION PAGE OF
SECRET 2 2 PAGES
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF DATE-TIME GROUP CITE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
DIRECTOR 125981

CONF: INFO: FILE INDEX DISSEM BY: D
NO INDEX
RETURN TO PER
IP FILES #

4. WISH TO CALL ABOVE TO ADDRESSEES' ATTENTION IN EVENT
STATIONS ARE SOLICITED FOR ADVICE OR ASSISTANCE. RTACTION IS
COOPERATING FULLY WITH BLAKEY AND COMMITTEE INCLUDING ALLOWING
THEM ACCESS TO DIRECTORATE RECORDS, AFTER SUITABLE SANITIZATION
FOR SOURCES AND METHODS. HOWEVER, BELIEVE COMMITTEE'S EFFORTS
TO INTERVIEW POLICE AND WITNESSES AND RESULTING USEFUL INFORMATION
OBTAINED, IF ANY, IS LARGELY OVERT FUNCTION WHICH CAN BEST BE
HANDLED BY LEGATTS OR OTHERS WHO WOULD ALSO BE IN A POSITION TO
BE PUBLICLY QUOTED OR IDENTIFIED IF NECESSARY.

5. STATIONS EXPECTED TO PROVIDE EMBASSY BEST ADVICE IF
SOLICITED BUT REQUESTED TO AVOID INVOLVING STATION OFFICERS IN
NEGOTIATIONS EVEN IN THEIR COVER CAPACITIES. IF CIRCUMSTANCES
SUCH THAT THIS UNAVOIDABLE, PLEASE ADVISE HQS BY CABLE SO THAT
THE MATTER CAN BE APPROPRIATELY HANDLED WITH BLAKEY AND
DEPARTMENT. Η

ORIG: O/SA/DO/O ESOVERN); COORD: OLC (CUMMINS), DC/LA (CLAUDER),
JAMES
MGSB HAWKINS
C/LA/EXE DC/EUR/BC STMOONG, C/EUR/IB (BERGER) AUTH:
SA/DO/O KATROSH); REL: DC/EUR LESTES.J

DATE: 14 NOVEMBER 1977
ORIG: MASOVERN
UNIT: O/SA/DO/
EXT: 1542

DC/EUR

RELEASING OFFICER CILISTHE
C/LA/STATE B-106 artits
OLC
DC/EUR/BC/DCTLAN
AC/EUR/IB C/LA/SA/DO/O
COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:
