104-10213-10314 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel
Director of Security

FROM: S.D. Breckinridge

SUBJECT: HSCA Request of 20 July 1978 -
OLC-78-2728

1. Attached is correspondence from the DDO focal
point on the HSCA investigation, responding to Question
12 of reference. It states that there are and have been
no agreements (at least not as described in the HSCA
request) between CIA and the FBI, or other government
agencies, that pertain to the Agency's responsibilities
to report on U.S. citizens abroad who contact Communist
embassies or officials. It also states that current
legislation forbids such reporting.

2. Attached are copies of papers collected by
O/IG during the Rockefeller Commission's inquiry; I
recall that there was a 1966 agreement, which is not in
these papers. In any event they do not seem to contain
a specific provision such as is envisioned in the report.
It is possible that interpretations of NSCID and DCID
provisions resulted in routine reporting of such con-
tacts, although there were no agreements, per se, for
such action. Since the promulgation of Executive
Orders 11905 and 12036 there have been limitations on
reporting on U.S. persons, which may affect past practice.
However, this office is not in a position to provide an
Agency position on this issue.

3. It is requested that you coordinate with the
DDO in preparing an answer to an Agency response to
the HSCA question.

Distribution:
1 - General Counsel
1- D/Security
1- OLC/Subj.
1- OLC/Chron
1- Mr. Gregg w/o/ATT
1- Mr. Shepanek

S.D. Breckinridge

This document may be
downgraded to AIUO
when detached from
attachment

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 Mr. Breckinridge
2
3
4
5
6

ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE
Remarks:

Expansion of DCD-FBI Relationship
Book Dispatch 9335 of 18 Feb 1975

Two sanitized copies ready for Mr. Knoche.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE
Walter F. Little 3/18/75
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

Use previous editions

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1
2
3
4
5
6

ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE
Remarks:

2 copies each of the attached
sent to Mr. Knoche and IG
3/18/75

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

Use previous editions

OUTGOING TELEPOUCH

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
TEL U
CLASSIFICATION

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
TELEPOUCH
0 MORE
0 RETRUN TO
0 bfiles

DATE - TIME GROUP
BOOK DISPATCH 9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: G2361870

TO:FR/ATLANTA, FR/CHICAGO, FR/CLEVELAND, FR/BOSTON, FR/SAN FRANCISCO
FR/LOS ANGELES, FR/NEW YORK, FR/WASHINGTON.

SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISP NO: BD 9335 22 12 52Z FEB 74
DATE: 18 FEBRUARY 1974

ISOLOG

TO: CHIEF OF BASE, ATLANTA; CHIEF OF BASE, BOSTON; CHIEF OF BASE, LOS
ANGELES; CHIEF OF BASE, CHICAGO; CHIEF OF BASE, CLEVELAND; CHIEF OF
BASE, SAN FRANCISCO; CHIEF OF BASE, NEW YORK; CHIEF OF BASE, WASHINGTON;

FROM: CHIEF, FOREIGN RESOURCES DIVISION

SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH THE FBI

1. ATTACHED HEREWITH IS THE SUBSTANCE OF A LETTER FROM FBI HAS
TO ITS EIGHT FIELD OFFICES IN CITIES WHERE FR BNASES ARE LOCATED. 2
THIS LETTER IS AIMED AT CLARIFYING A NUMBER OF BASIC FACTS REGARDING DAN
THE MISSIOND OF DDO IN GENERAL AND FR DIVISION ACTIVITIES IN THE USA
IN PARTICULAR, AND IT SPELLS OUT IN SOME DETAIL OUR AGREED INTERPRE-
TATION OF SOME OF THE HISTORICALLY MORE TROUBLESOME ASPECTS OF THE
1966 AGREEMENT.

DATE: 15 FEB 74
ORIG:
UNIT: FR/COPS
EXT: 5885

FRICO

COOPMATING OFFICERS

IP USE ONLY

C/FR/BL
C/FR/B2
C/FR/B3

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TEL
CLASSIFICATION

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
TELEPOUCH
0 MORE
0 RETRUN TO
0 bfiles
2

BD 9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

2. UE WERE ESPECIALLY GRATIFIED WITH THE OPENING PARAGRAPHS OF
THE LETTER WHICH EMPHASIZE THE FACT THAT FR IS CARRYING OUT A U.S.
GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENT IN ITS RECRUITMENT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND THAT THIS ACTIVITY IS BEING CONDUCTED IN THE USA WITH
FULL BUREAU CONCURRENCE. ANOTHER BASIC POINT WHICH THE LETTER MAKES
IS THAT THE PURPOSE OF THE GUIEDELINES (1966 AGREEMENT) IS TO PROTECT
THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE U.S.EGOVERNMENT, NOT ENABLE THE BUREAU TO
MONITOR OUR OPERATIONS.

3. THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE DISCUSSION INVOLVED IN DRAFTING THIS
LETTER, BUT NO REAL STICKY DIFFERENCES AROSE. WE BELIEVE IT MIGHT BE
USEFUL TO GIVE ADDRESSEES SOME OF THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THESE DISCUSSIONS
AS BACKGROUND FOR ANY TALKS YOU MAY HAVE ON THESE SUBJECTS WITH YOUR
FIELD OFFICE CONTACTS. THESE ARE SET OUT BELOW:

A. PAGE 2, LAST PARAGRAPH: ON THE QUESTION OF WHAT FOREIGN
-OFFICIALS ARE OF "PRESUMED INTEREST" TO THE BUREAUS WE AGREED THAT
THIS CATEGORY CHANGED WITH WORLD DEVELOPMENTS AND THAT FR WOULD
SIMPLY USE A COMMON SENSE JUDGMENT TO MAKE ITS CASE BY CASE DETER-
MINATION- UE AGREED THAT TRYING TO BROADEN OR LIMIT THE CATEGORY EY

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

COOPOMATING OFFICERS
IP USE ONLY

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TEL
CLASSIFICATION

MESSAGE HANDLING NO-CARD
TELEPOUCH
0 RETUAN TO
O file

DATE-THE GROUP
ESPATCH MUNEER
BD-9335
3

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

FURTHER DEFINITION WAS NOT PRACTICAL.

B. PAGE 3, TOP PARAGRAPH: PLEASE NOTE THAT THE CRITERION
OF OVERLAP AND/OR CONFLICT IS USED THERE THE SAME AS IN THE 'LL AGR
MENT PARAGRAPH TUO CONCERNING BUREAU CONCURRENCE FOR RECRUITMENT
APPROACHES.

C. PAGE 3, BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: ALTHOUGH WE ARE REQUIRED ON
TO KEEP FBI APPRISED OF INFORMATION RELATING TO ITS COUNTERINTELLIG
AND INTERNAL SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES, WE CONCURRED IN THIS REQUES
FOR MORE DETAILED AND TIMELY REPORTING ON CERTAIN CASES SINCE WE
CONSIDERED THE DETAIL ASKED FOR TO BE OF DEMONSTRABLE CI VALUE AND
TIME LIMITS TO BE REASONABLE. THE BUREAU WAS COMPLETELY AMENABLE 1
LIMITING SUCH REQUIREMENTS TO CASES WHEREIN THEIR STATUTORY RESPO:
SIBILITIES WERE CLEARLY INVOLVED, AND WE WERE PARTICULARLY PLEASED
THE ADDITIONAL AGREEMENT ALLOWING THE FIELD OFFICES AND THE FR BASI
TO WORK OUT THE LOCAL HANDLING OF ALL OTHER CASES, INCLUDING 3850
SPECIFICALLY THE "PRIOR NOTICE" REQUIREMENT OF PARAGRAPH THREE OF
"66 AGREEMENT. ENOTE THAT THIS ENTIRE PORTION OF THE LETTER INVOL
TARGETS WHICH ARE HISTORICALLY AS WELL AS PRACTICALLY, IN THE BURE
COORDINATING OFFICERS

IP USE ONLY
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TEL
CLASSIFICATION

TELEPOUCH
IP FILES
Face
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:
FACES
4
::
"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ETERRITORY". IT SHOULD ALSO BE NOTED THAT THE
BUREAU HAS ALREADY AGREED TO PROVIDE US WITH CERTAIN TYPES OF OPERA-
TIONAL INFORMATION IN EXCESS OF ANY EXISTING AGREEMENT, AND WE HAVE
RECEIVED INITIALLY FAVORABLE REACTION TO PROPOSALS FOR ADDITIONAL
ITEMS IN THE FUTURE. UE DO NOT BELIEVE THIS REPORTING AGREEMENT UILL
CAUSE YOU ANY SERIOUS PROBLEMS, BUT IF IT SHOULD BE BROADENED OR
INTERPRETED IN A WAY THAT YOU CONSIDER UNREASONABLE OR BURDENSOME,
PLEASE ADVISE AND WE WILL TRY TO HAVE THE CRITERIA DEFINED MORE LEGERD
CLEKRUBEOSELY.

D. PAGE 4. BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: WE HAD CONSIDERABLE DISCUSSION
ON THIS SUBJECT. THE CBUREAU FELT THAT IN SOME INSTANCES WE WERE
"STRETCHING" THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS INTO THE FIRST STAGES OF RECRUIT-
MENT AND IN SOME OTHERS UE WERE MOVING INTO RECRUITMENT WITHOUT
: FORMALLY SEEKING BUREAU CONCURRENCE AND COORDINATION. GOOD FAITH
BEING PRESUMED, IT BECAME APPARENT THAT OUR PROBLEM WAS BOTH SEMANTIC
FAND ONE OF DEFINITION. THE BUREAU INSISTS, AND WE RECOGNIZE THAT
• CONCURRENCE IN OUR PROCEEDING WITH ASSESSMENT CANHOT BE INTERPRETEED
AS CONCURRENCE TO MOVE BEYOND ASSESSMENT. THEY EXPLAIN THAT THEY

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
COOPOMATING OFFICERS

IP USE ONLY

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

TEL
CLASSIFICATION

TELEPOUCH
Π
MOCE
0
NO INDER

0
40
DISPATCH AUMAJA
BD-9335
PAGE
5

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

:OFTEN CONCUR IN OUR ASSESSMENT OF TARGETS IN WHOM THEY HAVE A VE
ACTIVE "RECRUITMENT INTEREST" WITH BUREAU SOURCES IN TOUCH, ETC.
HENCE, BEFORE THE AGENCY MOVES INTO THE ACTUAL RECRUITMENT OPERA
THE BUREAU NEEDS SPECIFIC NOTICE IN ORDER TO ASSESS ITS OUN COUN
INTELLIGENCE OR INTERNAL SECURITY EQUITIES AND MAKE A DECISION.

THE DEFINITIONS OF "ASSESSMENT" AND "RECRUITMENT" IN THE LE
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED TOGETHER: THE ONLY POSSIBLE AREA OF CONFUSI
HOULD SEEM TO BE IN THE "PROCESS" OF RECRUITMENT. A SIMPLIOFIED
COMMON SENSE BREAKDOWN WOULD BE THAT ASSESSMENT IS THE OBTAINING
AND ANALYZING OF INFORMATION CONCERNING A TARGET INDIVIDUAL TO E
US TO DETERMINE WHETHER OR NOT IT IS DESIRABLE-AND/OR FEASIBLE T
MOUNT A RECRUITMENT APPROACH; IF OUR ASSESSMENT IS AFFIRMATIVE.
THEN MOVE INTO THE RECRUITMENT PHASE PRIOR TO WHICH NOVE UE MU
SEEK BUREAU CONCURRENCE AND COORDINATION.

UE INTERPRET MANIPULATION OF A TARGET VIA SOCIAL CONTACTS,
MANY CASES BY OVERT, LEGAL, OINONCOMPROMISING BUSINESS ARRANGEME
TO BE PART OF THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS; THAT IS AN ATTEMPT TO OBT
:DINFORMATION REGARDING HIS VULNERABILITY, STRENGTH, IDEOLOGY,

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
COORDINATING OFFICERS

IP USE ONLY

TEL
CLASSIFICATION

TELEPOUCH
0
MOCE
0
NO MOER
0
OSPATCH HUMBER
BD-9335
mees
6
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

ASPIRATIONS, ETC. ALL OF WHICH ARE PERTINENT TO OUR DECISION TO
OR NOT GO" FOR A RECRUITMENT APPROACH. ON THE OTHER HAND, HE IN
PRET A COMMERCIAL ARRANGEMENT UHICH IS IN ANY WAY COVERT OR QUAS:
LEGAL OR IS A PLANNED STEPEPING STONE TO THE PLANNED INTRODUCTION
U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST, TO BE PART OF THE RECRUITMENT PROCESS /
TO REQUIRE PRIOR BUREAU CONCURRENCE.

E. PAGE 4. BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: BASES WILL NOTE THAT UE
AGREED TO CONSIDER AGENTS RECRUITED IN THE U.S. WHO EREMAIN HERE.
SAME AS AGENTS RECRUITED ABROAD UHO COME HERE FOR TOURS OR VISITS
ALTHOUGH ONLY THE LATTER ARE SPECIFIGED IN THE AGREEMENT, HE FEL1
IMPLICITLY IT INCLUDED THE FORMER. UE FEEL THAT OUR EQUITIES ARE
ADEQUATELY PROTECTED BY THE VERY SPECIFIC TERMINOLOGY OF PARAGRAF
1
FIVE AND SIX OF THE 6966 AGREEMENT. NOTE ALSO THAT ALTHOUGH THE
•PROVISIONS OF PARAGRAPHS FOUR, FIVE AND SIX OF THE 01966 AGREEMEN
ARE ALL-ENCOMPASSING, WE ARE IN PRACTICE CONCERNED ONLY WITH THOS
AGENTS, OPERATIONS AND SOURCES WHO HAVE REAL OR POTENTIAL CONTACT
OR CAPABILITY IN THE FIELDS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND/OR INTERNA
SECURITY; THAT IS, WHO ARE OF KINOUN OR PRESUMED INTEREST TO THE

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
COORDINATING OFFICERS

IP USE ONLY

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

TEL
CLASSIPATION
ace
Π
VESSAGE HANDLING MOCATON
TELEPOUCH
0
MODE
0
MDER
RETURN TO
Obiles

DATE-TIME CHOUP

OSPATCH" NUMBER
BD-9335
PALE
7
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

BUREAU. IT IS INCUMBENT UPON US. HOWEVER, TO BE METICULOUS IN (
DETERMINATION OF "PRESUMED" INTEREST AND TO LEAN TOWARDS THAT PE
SUMPTION WHEREVER THERE IS ANY DOUBT

4. FILE: 100-002-090.

ATTACHMENT FBI LETTER, AS STATED ABOVE H/U

E2 IMPDET-

DIST:
1- FR/REG,W/ATT
1 FR/COPS W/ATT
1- 100-002-090

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
ECBET
