14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the mering of the supmage loat tele
18. USC Sen 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is potiboed by low
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY	Cuba	REPORT NO.	00-8-3161933
SUBJECT	Possible Rocket Launching Sito in Oriente Province	DATE DISTR.	
NO. PAGES	1
REFERENCES	

DATE OF INFO.	Late May 1960
PLACE & DATE ACQ.	Late May 1960
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
SOURCE:	US citizen, a pathologist who has recently returned from Cuba where he spent five years in charge of rice production and associated reccsr ch on a large rice plantation st Jabobe near the Comguny/Oriente border.

1.	Just prior to ay departure from Cuba on 26 Kay 60 I talked with a Vice Presidant of one of Cuba's larger rmilroads. He cccasionally goes on Inspection tours of the railroad's facilities, and had just returned from on inspection of the company's spur linse in the Bierza Maestra region of Oriente province. in vas accompanied at all times by a Cuben Army officer.

One of the spur lives in the Sierra theatre ran into a restricted aren. In this crea my friend observed vader construction marous large concrete slabs, insedistely edjecant to which were very tall towers of metal Semwork and vire construation. He says that these were not TV or seمنف antant-type towers. From his very limited teiste of the majeok, 10, the few pictures he has seen in angasings cod Mewspapers of rocket launching sites, la said that these tovare asperred stating to steel structures he has man in pictures of realet lomaking bases. Ea asked his Cuban Aray escort what perpeso es construction vas to earve, and vas told "It is ast • Stadtise to ask too many gestions where lightning night strike".
the emezote amstruction week we being krodied by Nexien technicians.
Profina's construction of large storage techo "tae pars water" on Crye Langn totaly bera in Cuba, but for cocape to fact the the chorego te for water. In is the conaan tenke are few feal secrege and will carve as a redealing base for serinne. I have flam was Pape Longe
