1104-10073-10074
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH 
CLASSIFICATION
SECRΓ.Τ.
PROCESSING
PROPOSED ACTION ACCOMPLISHED
To Chief, Task Force W 	X	MARKED FOR DEXING
NO HIDEXING REQUIRED.
ORILY QUALIFIED
MEADQUARTERS DESA
CAR JUDGE MICEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM

BIFO 
FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE ARC

sOperational/GYROSLEZAMCUTLEF
AMCUTLER-1 Progress Feport for November and December 1962.
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: For your information.

Reference: UFCA-6637, dated 23 November 1962.

Developments:

1. ANCUTLEF-1's. efforts during the reporting period were directed 
toward: (a) supporting the ATAUNA operation; and (b) developing new
KUTUBE operations.

2. In support of the AMFAUNA operation, he has been investigating 
AMFAUNA-4, for which purpose he has interviewed seven Masons in Miami
who presumably should have known ANFAUNA-4 but did not, and two indi-
viduals in New York who did know him. (See UFCA-7118.)

3. AMCUTLER-1 has also reported a potential courier channel to 
ANTAUNA-1, using:

:
X
6
Conzalo ABELEN Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca 71915

:
Wesidence N.E. SHiscayne Blvd, Miami, Fla.
Occupation: Emplovee of Brazilian&Consulate

and his brother

Manuel PARELEM PAHELEN Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca 1909
Residence? Havana, Cuba,
Occupation: Officer of Brazilian Embassy, Havana

Once a month a pouch passes between the Brazilian Consulate in Miami and 
the Embassy in Havana, and AMCUTLER-1 has made use of it to send letters
for posting in Havana to AMCUTLER-2. The two ARELEM brothers are 
personal friends of ANCUTLER-1 and AMCUTLER-2 but AMCUTLER-1 does not
(Continued)
Distribution: DATE TYPED
- Headquarters 9 Jan. 63
CROSS REFERENCE TO DATE OFSPATCHED
JAN: 13
"DISPATON SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-7171

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET 19-6-74/3

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
# 09593

14.00000
CONTINUATION OF 
DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND
SE CARE. Τ UFGA-7171

baliove that they would yet be willing to carry or send any obvious
enpionage material. He does believe that they would be willing to
curry canned good to AMCUTLER-2, and this is being explored, with the
idea of concealing, money, maps,etc. in the tin cans.

4. For the purpose of trying to develop new KUTUBE operations,
AMCUTLER-1 has been following up leads given him by his case officer,
He has interviewed

CONTACT Sub. of 201-
293865 Carlos Manuel CACERES-Blay 8.
Former manager Motel Las Cuevas, Trinidad
Residence 1122 S.W. 16th Ave. Miami, Fle.

from whom he obtained two intelligence reports; and
from whom he obtained 
G
Evelio CRUZ 107
Born Candelaria Cuba
Residence 1545 S.W. 6th St., Apt. 4.Miami, Fla.

operational information on the Esquivel Caves,
Soroa Zone, termino municipal of Candelaria, Pinar del Rio. CRUZS
passed AMCUTLER-1 to

5
Luis CHERNANDEZ aka "El Ferrible"
Residence 665 Ν.Ε. 24th St., Apt. 8, Miami, Fla.

who gave additional information on the caves which, he said, are the 
property of his brother-in-law
CITI CUBA

-RE. INFO. ON Sub's PROPERTY
and
IN CUDAI Dioninio QUGARTE
Sixtor PUGARTET

5
5
Anita PERRASTE' Betancourt. A CANDELARIA, PINAR
who still lives in the area. Idel Rio, Cuba

5. ANCUTLER-1 reported that his friend "Pepe" GONZALEZ, whose
brother-in-law now resident in Spain is a son of

6
8
(Dr) Carlos PEDEMONTE
Head of Cartographic Office of INRA
G Sub's SCN. IS CONTACT of sub. of 208 293865

has received word that PEDEMONTE is looking for a way to leave Cuba.c
ANCUTLER-1 is trying to develop additional information on PEDEMONTE' &
situation from GONZALEZ Other than press clippings, the only JMWAVE
truce on PEDEMONTE is contained in HKH-02664 of 15 April 1960.

6. On 22 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been 
invited by one

1
6
"Chique" KONTES CIT:Cuba
Cuban citizen CONTACT sub of 201-293865
Resident Puerto Rico
1 JAN. 63

to join a maritime expedition aimed against tanker traffic on the south
coast of Cuba, with the further objective of seizing a Cuban frigate 
with the cooperation of its captain. Details were sent to Headquarters
in WAVE-2749 of 22 December, in the hope that it might be possible to
make a tentative identification of the naval officer involved.

7. On 25 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been 
informed the day before by

PIA: Lana CIT Caba
Pedro Luis DIA: Lanz
CONTACT Sub. of 201-293865

USS CARD REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF 
DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND HUR
SECRET UFGA-7171
301-342.518 6FR CIT.

Reinard LOPEZ Llub 201-342588%
19750
an
6 FR Clifube
Enrique CEIJAS 7201-288950

had just approached him with the offer to sell him some weapons
allegedly belonging to KUBARK which were stored on an unidentified
key and valued at several thousand dollars. LOPEZ and CEIJAS told
DIAZ/that an armed raid on the key would have to be simulated so that
suspicion would not fall on them, and that the raid would have to be
pulled off on eithen the night of 25 December or 31 December when one
ce the other of the men would be on guard duty at the key. (DIAZ/had
turned down the offer. JMWAVE file checks showed that the two men
were indeed of interest to KUBARK, and that AMTABBY Underwater
Demolition Team was possibly involved. Appropriate defensive measures
ware immediately taken.
Froduction: 1 Sub. of 201-293865 with effER TO SELL him
CWEAPONS BELONGING TO 4.S GOU. AgENCY..

8. The following reports were disseminated during the period:

UFG-1955 "Reaction to Current Crisis within Cuba"
UFG-2098 "Possible Military Use of Caves near Trinidad,
Las Villas"
UFG-2143 "Identification of Two Cavos near Trinidad,
Las Villas Which Could be Used for 
Military Purposes"
UFGT-2823 "Passenger Manifests for Flights to & From Cuba".

Costs:

9. The following expenses were incurred during the period on 
behalf of the operation:

Two months' salary $500.00
Use of POV 80.00
Meeting expenses 10.22
$546.22

Future Plans

10. No change.

END OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
