14-00000
14-00000
104-10177-10226 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE

ONF 0 CU 19 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY PACE of PAGES 1 2
CLASSIFICATION FOO
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
0 0 0 0 0 0 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
SECRET MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR MESSAGE REFERENCE FOR CATS-TIME ORLA
CHA CONF: FILE D1 C1 PHON CIA/DDO 0 BETURN TO PERS 960493 MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR MESSAGE REFERENCE FOR CATS-TIME ORLA DISSEM BY:
INFO: FILE C/01/2, 160/000, 1/10/1722 0/0032 NO MOOKI NO DIGCE #132
TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/ATTN: R.K. MCHARGUE/
GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISIONY
SECRET/HARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO
CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTIBON
OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.4

FIRCI-312/03777-767
SUBJECT: POSSIBLE TRAVEL TO THE U.S. OF RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETEY
1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION MAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO
ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN
ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY.Y
2. ACCORDING TO A SOURCE WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTAB-
LISHED, RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, A CUBAN EXILE LIVING IN
WHO HAS BEEN MENTIONED IN THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CUBAN BOMBING AND
CARACAS, VENEZUELA EMPLOYED BY THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE WA
SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION, IS LEAVING VENEZUELA ON
24 DECEMBER 1976 AND WILL RETURN ON 7 JANUARY 1977. THE SOURCE
BELIEVES THAT MORALES DESTINATION IS THE UNITED STATES SINCE HE
1
HAS LEARNED THAT MORALES HAS RECENTLY BEEN IN TELEPHONE CONTACT
DATE ORG
DATE
UNIT:
EXT:
312/03777-716
200476
RECORD COPY
coonbin YOGES
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SUPUENTICATING OFFICE
E2 IMPDET
CL BY:

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY 19 2
PAGE 14-00000 2 OF PAGES SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
2
OMF CLASSIFICA SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY Cu SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY PAGE 2 19 2 OF PAGES
0 0 0 0 0 0 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
SECRET MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR MESSAGE REFERENCE MESSAGE REFERENCE
FOR CATS-TIME OROLA
CONF: INFO: FILLE
960423 0 RETURN TO Return to Files
GNOSE
0 PERS
NO MOGR
0 PERS PILES PER PILES #
WITH ONE PILAR A LFONZ O, WHO LIVES IN FLORIDA, AND WHOSE
U.S. TELEPHONE NUMBER IS 305-446-6722. ON HIS RETURN, MORALES
WILL MOVE FROM THE ANAUCO HILTON IN CARACAS, WHERE HE HAS BEEN
LIVING, TO AN APARTMENT HE IS TRYING TO OBTAIN CLOSE TO THE HOTEL-Y
3. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON ALFONΖΟ.Υ.
4. THE ABOVE INFORMATION HAS BEEN MADE AVAILABLE TO THE
LEGAL ATTACHE IN CARACAS. NO FURTHER DISSEMINATION IS BEING
MADE.Y
5. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.
BASED ON CARACAS 31720 (BIN-130856)
SOURCE: WKDIET-2-
08-J: L1
FILE: 201-0285923
DATE: 17 DEC 76
ORIGO HARRIET WEILER:LU
UNIT: C/LA/PNC/R
EXT: 9454
CUSCATION
C/PCS/LSN

C/LA/PNC
PCS/INT B
AGCIDDO
Pes/ITC Sis
C/CA/RA 1.2 Bring
Akkahous
AD
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBIT) •E:2: IMPDET
; CIRY-007255

14-00000
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
OUTGOING MESSAGE
14-00000 0 0 0 0 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY PAGE 3 OF PAGES SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
19 3 3 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
Cu Cu
SOCSOET MESSAGEHANDONGINGORCATOR MESSAGE REFERENCE MESSAGE REFERENCE
STAFF
JATE TIME ウリ DIRECTOR 960161
CONF. INFO. FILE Date Pose GROUP 1722332 DIRECTOR 0 GISSEM BY
films, DDO3, INDODO, GNOSE #
ACCIDDO, dice drestite-4, INET, 0 1050" Pn10 PER
CARACAS CITEULEGE, ASIA, SISIRIEL, CLONID 0 PILES
TO: 1 0 PILES LA/MIAMI INFO CARACAS. Y 24 74
UNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE MHSPIKE
1
REF: CARACAS 31679 IN 130856 CHOT NEEDED BY LA/MIAMI Y
1. FOR STATION INFO. REF. REPORTED INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 15
DECEMBER 76 FROM UNILATERAL STATION ASSET WKDIET-2 THAT RICARDO
MORALES NAVARRETE (201-0285923) IS LEAVING VENEZUELA ON 24
DECEMBER AND PLANS TO RETURN ON 7 JANUARY 77. WKDIET-2 BELIEVES THAT
MORALES IS HEADING FOR U.S. SINCE HE RECENTLY HAS BEEN IN TELEPHONE
CONTACT WITH ONE PILAR ALFONZO, FLORIDA TELEPHONE 305-445-6722.
THERE ARE NO CARACAS STATION OR HAS TRACES ON ALONZO. STATION HAS
PASSED THIS INFORMATION TO LEGATT CARACAS, AND IT ALSO IS BEING FUR-
NISHED TO FBI HAS. Y
م
2. FOLLOWING BACKGROUND IS PROVIDED IN CASE MIAMI STATION NO
LONGER HOLDS FULL RECORDS ON MORALES. HE IS CUBAN-BORN, RECENTLY
NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZEN WHO IS VERY CLOSE TO ORLAND
GARCIA VASQUEZ, DE FACTO HEAD OF DISIP: SERVED UNDER GARCIA IN
DISIP AND IN EARLY NOVEMBER UAS ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN DISIP INVESTIGA-
TION OF 6 OCTOGER BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER, THOUGH BOTH HE AND
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
URENC
27-2923
17
BELEAS OFFICE
SECRET
RECORD
NOTICENS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIΒΙΤΣΟ
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 007255.

14-00000
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
OUTGOING MESSAGE
14-00000 0 0 0 0 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY PAGE 4 OF PAGES SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
19 4 5 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
CAFC 0 0 0 0 0 0 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
SECRET MESSAGEHANDONGINGORCATOR MESSAGE REFERENCE MESSAGE REFERENCE
STAFF Date Pose GROUP DIRECTOR 0
CONF INFO. FILE 1723432. BNOSE PER
5 5 191096
GARCIA MAP CONNECTIONS WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AND OTHER SUSPECTS IN
BOMBING. MORALES WAS RECRUITED IN MIAMI IN FEBRUARY 34 FOR USE AS
RADIO OPERATOR AND MEMBER OF PARAMILITARY FILTRATION FEAT. TRAINED
IN MIAMI AND AT ISOMETRIC, BUT TERMINATED AUGUST 64 UTTHOUT BEING
USED IN ANY AGENCY-SPONSORED MISSION AGAINST CUSA. HE VOLUNTEERED,
SIGNED UP AND WAS TRAINED TOWARD FOR PH ACTION IN CONGO SEPTEMBER 64,
ALTHOUGH THERE IS CONFLICTING INFO IN HIS FILE AS TO DETHER HE DID IN
FACT SERVE IN THE CONGO. HE EAS TERMINATED IN DECEMBER 61. KFOR
FRIENDS
CARACAS: PLEASE NOTE THESULTS STATEMENT IN DIRECTOR 333153 THAY BLA
MORALES DID NOT SERVE IN CONGO. HE LAS ARRESTED IN NEARI 64 FEBRUARY
68 FOR INVOLVETIENT IN BONDINGS BY CUBAR POLER GROUP. STATION PASSED
PERTINENT INFO ON HIM TO FEI AT THAT TIME. HAS GEEN PAD FRE INFOR-
MANT AND IN OCTOBER 72 LAS REGISTERED IN ISR TO ENDD. DAS NAMED AS
CIA AGENT IN MANUEL DE ARMAS PRESS CONFERENCE", APPEL 2 WHICH
GIVEN CONSIDERABLE PUBLICITY IN CARACAS. CASCARLET-4, SENSITIVE PENE-
TRATION OF LIAISON HAS DESCRIBED MORALES AS COSESSIVELY ANTE-CIA AND
DISPOSED TO TURN ANY UNPLEASANT SITUATION OR EVENT CINCLUDING CUBAN
AIRCRAFT BOMBINGY INTO "CIA PLOT." MORALES HAS BEEN OF CONSIDERABLE
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
NEPRODUCTO OTHER THAN THE S 002255

14-00000
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
OUTGOING MESSAGE
14-00000 0 0 0 0 SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY PAGE 5 OF PAGES SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
DIRECTOR 96016/
S14923. BNOSE PER
5 5 191096
INTEREST TO U.S. JOURNALISTS, AND THERE IS POSSIBILITY OF HIS MAKING
ANTI-CIA STATEMENTS TO PRESS CONTACTS IN MIAMI. Y
3. ALTHOUGH IT IS ASSUMED THAT FBI WILL COVER ACTIVITIES OF
MORALES IF HE VISITS MIAMI, WILL APPRECIATE YOUR FORWARDING TO CARACAS
STATION AND HAS ANY PASSIVELY ACQUIRED INFORMATION THAT COMES TO YOUR
ΑΤΤΕΝΓΙON. Y
4. FILE: 201-0245923. EE IMPOET.d

REF INFO ON MORALES FROM UKDIET-2

DATE. 17 250 1
ORIT 1.COOLEY:PM
UMF LA/PNC/V
Axr. 1715
C/PCS/LC (FOR INFO
C/LA/CAR--MR-AMES CINDRAFT)
C/LA/COG--MR CLAYTON CINDRAFTE
como/
C/LA/PNC
ORA د ناست .
FION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIRITED F2 IMPOET
CL BY: 007255

14-00000

CADE Bこじゅま٧٥٠ 3, 3
PERSON TUOSO-LA でも、ここごくか
SECRET ADVANCE COPY REDDON/D D.50
ACTION LAS ACTION. FILE
VANS SN/ID, pes DDO 3, CEC1000, C/RS/IT24 C/NEL,
T 463527 Ξ14853
PAGE 1
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIΘΙΤΕΟ
STAFF
5 6 7
IN 132856
TOR:1520493 DEC 76 CARA 31730
SECRET 1522352 DEC 76 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 3:732
TO: רוניסITY DIRECTOR.
WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE MASPIKE
( GN
REF: CARACAS 326790126234)
0. 1. RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE (CUSAN EXILE WORKING
FOR DISIO) IS LEAVING VENEZUELA ON 24 DECEMBER AND RETURNING ON
7 JANUARY 1977. ON 15 JANUARY DE WILL MOVE FROM THE ANAUCO
HILTON TO AN APARTMENT HE IS TRYING TO FIND CLOSE TO THE
ANAUCO.
2. ABOVE REPORTED BY WADIET-2 FROM MORALES ON 15 DECEMBER.
WKDI ET-2 BELIEVES THAT MORALES - EADING FOR THE U.S. SINCE
MORALES RECENTLY HAS BEEN IN TELEPHONE CONTACT WITH ONE PILAR
ALFON 30. FLORIDA, U.S. TEL. 335-446-5722. NO TRACES ON
PILAR.
3. STATION WAS PASSED PERTINENT INFO ABOVE TO LOCACY
LNERGO RED ASKED IT ALSO BE GIVEN T LNERGO HOS.
201-255923. E2 IMPCET,
Oa
5
P
PREPARE 108 FA
COMEX (11)
(1)
SECRET RECORD COPY
201-28523
15

14-00000 3005
... B IID CRS
DISSEM OV
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
E2, INPOET
CL, 91: 006687
PERSONIT NOTIFIED 7
AC 1/UN UNIT AGENCY MESSAGI
AT
AC 1/UN UNIT 11
FILE, VR, 日電), EPS/EC 2, IP/DMS, 11), PCS/INT 5.
CI Ч. СА Ч. SIA, SIA/IC, CPS/NAR 2.
ACTION
T 456735 El A1 76 PAGE 01 IN 129362-
TO RI 1416412 DEC 76 CARA 31700
SECRET 1416122 DEC 76 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 31708 TDFIRDB 315/12548-76
TO DIRECT OR
INTEL HVC-7556 Ricardo Morales
SUPDATA ZRWAHOO FOR UPGRADING OF RELIABILITY STATEMENT.
(NOTE: STRONGLY RECOMMEND WKDIET-3'S RELIABILITY
STATEMENT BE UPGRADED. W-3 HAS PROVIDED NUMEROUS
REPORTS MANY OF WHICH HAVE BEEN SUBSTANTIATED BY
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS AND/OR REPORTING BY OTHER SOURCES.)
SOURCE: WKDIET/WKDIET-3 DIRECTLY. SOURCE FIELD
COMMENT PARA 3 WKNEE D/ WK NO BLE-1 FROM WKSCARLET-9.
SOURCE FIELD COMMENT PARA 4 Wr IDET/WKDIET-2.
OD OBJECTIVE: L.1. NO INDEX. FILE: 75-120-28.
CL. BY 235133..
FILED: 14/16 12 Z XX XX X
LIFTER SENT.
SECRET
14-00000,
CONTRAL INTELLIGENCE in
DIRECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS
Intelligence Information Cable
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
STATE/INE JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCT SWS MSA TERAS NSC/S SNO NIO CRS
FBI
ROUTINE
IN 127362
PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES
Classified br Racemed Reporting Officer. Exempt from Oeneral Declassificatten Schedule of 20. 11632 Ecomplan
Category 38 impossible to Determing Date of Aute-natis Declassification.
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SURJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
SECRET
CITE TOFIR DB 315/12548-76
DIST 14 DECEMBER 1976
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOTRE LE AS ABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS
COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA
DOI: EARLY DECEMBER 1976
SUBJECT: CUBAN EXILE DENUNCIATION OF THREE VENEZUELAN SECURITY.
OFFICIALS
ACO: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (10 DECEMBER 1976) FIELD NO, HVC-7556
SOURCE: A VENEZUEL AN WITH CLOSE CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY
OFFICIALS. HE IS A FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE.
1. IN EARLY. DECEMBER 1976 HUMBERTO GIFFUNI, EX-DEPUTY
DIRECTOR OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND
PRVENTION (DISIP), SAID THAT CUBAN ÉXILE GROUPS BASED IN THE UNITED
STATES HAVE SUBMITTED INFORMATION TO OCTAVIO LEPAGE, VENEZUELAN
MINISTER OF INTERIOR, CLAIMING THAT HIGH-LEVEL VENEZUELAN SECURITY
OFFICIALS ARE UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE AGENTS. THESE OFFICIALS
ARE ORLANDO GARCIA, INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ADVISER TO
PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ AND DE FACTO CHIEF OF OPERATIONS
OF DISIPI RAFAEL RIVAS VASQUEZ, THE CURRENT DEPUTY DIRECTOR
OF DISIPI AND RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, UNTIL RECENTLY
SECRET

14-00000
FORM
9.73
3007
OBSOLETE PERVICUS
EDITIONS

WARNING NOTICE
IN 129362
TDFIR DB 315/12548-76
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
SECRET
(classification)
PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
i
CHIEF OF DISIP'S FOREIGN ESPIONAGE DIVISION. ALLL THREE OF THESE
MEN WERE ORIGINALLY CUBAN CITIZENS. (SOURCE COMMENT: GIFFUNI
DID NOT REVEAL THE EXACT NATURE OF THE ALLEGATIONS AGAINST THE MEN.)
2. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BELIEVES THAT THE CUBAN EXILES
ARE ATTEMPTING TO SMEAR THE THREE MEN, BECAUSE OF THEIR PART IN
ARRESTING CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORL AN DO BOSCH AND LUIS
POSADA WHO HAVE BEEN IMPLICATED IN THE CUBANA CRASH..
NONETHELESS, ACCORDING TO GIFFUNI, LEPAGE HAS APPOINTED A SPECIAL
COMMISSION HEADED BY GIFFUNI TO INVESTIGATE THE CHARGES MADE
AGAINST THE OFFICIALS, GIFFUNI ALSO SAID THAT HE IS EXPLORING
THE POSSIBILITY OF DISCREETLY INFORMAING NORBERTO HERNANDEZ
CURBELO. CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO VENEZUELA, OF THE CUBAN EXILE CHARGES
AGAINST THE MEN AND HIS INVESTIGATION OF THE CASE (FIELD COMMENT:
A CHANNEL BETWEEN GIFFUN! AND HERNANDEZ WAS INITIATED WHEN GIFFUN!
WAS DISIP DEPUTY CHIEF. SEE HVC-7380, TDFIRDB-315/04976-76. OF MID MAY,
FROM THE SAME SOURCE WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS BEEN SUBS EQUENT LY
UPGRADED. GIFFUNI HAS REASON TO HARBOR RESENT MENT
:
SINCE HE AND RIVAS WERE BITTER RIVALS INSIDE DIS IP AND SINCE GARCIA AND
RIVAS REPLACED HIM AT DISIP. MORALES, IN TURN, IS CLOSELY
ASSOCIATED WITH GARCIA.)

14-00000
PO 3007 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
973
EDITIONS

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
SECRET
felassifleation)
IN 129362 או
TOFIR DB 315/12548-76
PAGE 3 OF 3-PAGES
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
i
3. (FIELD COMMENT A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY
REPORTED THAT CUBAN EXILES BASED IN THE UNITED STATES HAVE
DENOUNCED THE THREE VENEZUE LAN. SECURITY OFFICIALS TO LEPAGE.
THIS SOURCE ADDED THAT THERE IS SOME SPECULATION THAT THE DENUNCIA -
TION HAD ACTUALLY BEEN MADE BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT'S GENERAL
DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCES.).
4.IN COMMENTING ON MORALES, GIFFUNI SAID THAT MORALES HAD
NOT LEFT VENEZUELA AS GENERALLY BELIEVED, BUT RATHER WAS WORKING
FOR DISIP IN THE INTERIOR UNDER A FALSE NAME. (FIELD COMMENT:
MORALES REPORTEDLY WAS ORDERED OUT OF VENEZUELA WHEN DISCLOSURES
CONCERNING HIS ACTIVITIES BECAME EMBARRASSING TO THE VENEZUELAN
GOVERNMENT. A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY INDEPENDENTLY
REPORTED THAT HE SPOKE WITH MORALES IN CARACAS IN EARLY DECEMBER
AND THAT MORALES ASKED HIM TO KEEP HIS PRESENCE IN CARACAS
CONFIDENTIAL.)

FIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY, DEA, FBI AT CARACAS.
REFORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEAS ABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONAL S--
NOT RELE AS ABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS. CLASSIFIED
BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.

XGDS-2.
SECRET

FORM SC200
14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM PER
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
32:1
RF 9
SECRE REPRODUOPH
TION D DY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE 'IS PROHIB:Tכפ
STAFFD
C/LA1936)
FILE FCC/DDO NEL LOCS/ITCH leas
ACTION Z
7448463 E14636-
PAGE 21-21
TOR:121920Z DEC 76
IN 126234
CARA 31679

SECRET 1019252 DEC 76 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 31679
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO LONDON.
WN INTEL RYBAT KMSTONE MHSPIKE.
(GN 097618)
0 REF: CARACAS 31409

1. WKDIET-2 (D-2) REPORTED ON 10 DECEMBER THAT RICARDO
MORALES NAVARRETE (201-0285923) IS BACK IN VENEZUELA..
D-2, WHO KNOWS MORALES PRSONALLY, SAW AND TALKKED TO HIM
AROUND 2 DECEMBER AT THE ANAUCO HILTON HOTEL WHRE WKTANGO-1
MAINTAINS QUARTERS. MORALES ASKED D-2 NOT TO SAY ANYTHINGRE
HIS PRESENCE HERE.

2. ABOVE INFO WILL BE INCLUDED IN INTEL THAT FOLLOWS:.
3. FILE: 201-0285923. E2. IMPDET.
PRE
פעק
