13-00000
SECRET
SENSITIVE

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FORM 3020b 
7-71 MFG. 2/75

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY: PER  EUR 30 TOTAL COPIES 6
RUN BY: 28
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED: SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN 
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

	ACTION UNIT
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
CEUR
NFO
RF FILE VR	DDO
ACTION #
BY
STAFF

	AT 1 2 3 4 5 6
1 604753
EIA836
EYES ONLY
PAGE 01	IN 795558
TOR:151902Z JAN 76	LOND 68796

SECRET 151705Z JAN 76 STAFF

CITE LONDON 68796
TO: DIRECTOR,
RYBAT PLKMBALL

NELSON FROM MEYER
REF: ROGER CHANNEL 09548

1. REFERENCE FROM DEPARTMENT INFORMS EMBASSY THAT SENATOR
HART OF SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE WILL BE ATTENDING CONFERENCE AT
DITCHLEY 30 JANUARY TO 1 FEBRUARY. HE HAS REQUESTED THAT EMBASSY
ARRANGE WITH DEREK TONKIN FOR BRIEFINGS ON SERIES OF SUBJECTS OF
INTEREST TO HIM AND SELECT COMMITTEE. THEY ARE THE DIVISION OF
LABOR BETWEEN A: SECURITY AND THE SECRET SERVICE AND, B. INTEL-
LIGENCE AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. HE GOES ON TO REQUEST BRIEFINGS
ON THE ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR COVERT OPERATIONS AND POLIT-
ICAL CONTROL OF POLITICAL OPERATIONS WITH THE FOREIGN OFFICE. IN
ADDITION HE WANTS BRIEFINGS ON INTELLIGENCE BUDGET ALLOCATION AND
COORDINATION AND SYSTEM FOR APPROVAL OF MAJOR INTELLIGENCE PROJECTS.
SENATOR HART ALSO WANTS A BRIEFING ON THE OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT
AND HOW IT WORKS.
2. TONKIN HAS BEEN CONTACTED BY EMBASSY OFFICER AND TONKIN HAS
SECRET *Not Rerewed..

13-00000

7-71 MFG. 2/75
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER
TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITI
STAFF

ACTION UNIT

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
AT
1 4
2
5
3
6
RF. FILE VR

ACTION #

NFO

T 604753
EIA836
PAGE 02-02
IN 795558
TOR:151902Z JAN 76
LOND 68796

ADVISED THAT BRITS WILL DO THEIR BEST TO PROVIDE INFORMATION SENATOR
HART WANTS BUT THAT SOME OF THE INFORMATION COULD NOT BE MADE
AVAILABLE, HE IS PROPOSING A JOINT MEETING WITH SIR LEONARD
HOOPER AND RICHARD SYKES FOR GENERAL DISCUSSIONS ON THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY AND WITH MR. ROBERT ARMSTRONG AT THE HOME OFFICE ON THE
WORKINGS OF THE OFFICIAL SECRETS. ACT. THERE WILL BE CHANGES IN
THE SCHEDULE AND EMBASSY WILL BE ADVISED BY MR. TONKIN AT A LATER
DATE.
3. THERE IS NO INDICATION IN THE DEPARTMENT TRAFFIC THAT CIA
HAS BEEN INFORMED BUT WE PRESUME THAT OFFICIALS OF THE AGENCY HA VE
OR WILL BE CONTACTED BY SENATOR HART OF HIS STAFF ON THE MATTER.
4. NO FILE. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET

13-00000
7-71 MFG. 2/75:
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 27 PER SOP #112 TOTAL COPIES 10-3 RUN BY
SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
: STAFF PRECEDENCE

: ATREPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTER
ACTION UNIT
VRC
DCI/REVIEW STAFF CSRF
1
4
2
5
3
6

C/EA3000, 10/280, 6/0nc

ACTION #
:
T 602263 EIA 422 PAGE 01 IN 794546
TORI1500522 JAN 76 CNBR 21033

SECRET 142302Z JAN 76 STAFF

CITE CANBERRA 21033

TO: DIRECTOR.
RYBAT TAPPER PLMHCONGA CODEL ADD AB BO

1. UPON ARRIVAL OF THE CODEL ON THE EVENING OF THE
12TH GEORGE CARY CONTACTED COS AND ARRANGED FOR STATION
BRIEFING AT 0830/13TH (THE CONTRY TEAM BRIEFING WAS SCHEDULED
FOR 0930), CARY MENTIONED THAT THE INTEL BRIEFS HAD BEEN
GIVEN "TAIL END" TREATMENT AT PREVIOUS STOPS AND CONGRESSMAN

C
ADDABBO HAD INDICATED THAT HE WANTED TO BE SURE AND REMEDY
THAT ON THE CANBERRA STOPOVER.

2, CONGRESSMEN ADDABBO, ROBINSON AND EDWARDS, ACCOMPANIED
BY STAFFERS SNODBRASS, PRESTON AND GEORGE CARY ARRIVED AT THE
EMBASSY AT 0830, WITH CUNNEELY PRESENT, COS GAVE THEM DETAILED
BRIEFING AS OUTLINED BY HEAD QUARTERS. DISCUSSION COVERED THE
MAKE-UP OF THE STATION AND BASES, OUR PRIMARY OBJECTIVES IN
AUSTRALIA, THE OVERALL MANAGEMENT SCHEME USED BY HOS IN MANAGE-
MENT OF STATION AND ITS ACTIVITIES, OUR USE OF LIA ISON,
STRESSING OUR USE OF THEM TO SUPPLEMENT OUR LIMITED RESOURCES,
OUR INTELLIGENCE CYCLE FROM VALIDATION OF REQUIREMENTS TO
SECRET.

13-00000
7-71 MFG. 2/75
CANOLE REC DISSEM BY PER.
TOTAL CORIES
RUN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED, SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
BY
AT
RF. FILE
VR
ACTION
NFO
T 602263 E1A422
PAGE 02
2
3
5
6
IN 794546
TORI150052Z JAN 76
CNBR 21033

PRODUCTION OF INTELLIGENCE, SPECIFIC DETAIRS OF HOW WE ACCOMP-
LISH OUR OPS TASKING- SPOTTING ASSESSMENT, DI RECT CONTACT
WITH TARGETS AND USE OF LIAISON - STATION BUDGET, ETC., ACTUAL
EXAMPLES WERE USED WHENEVER POSSIBLE TO MAKE THE POINT.

FOR EXAMPLE, THE PDWHIZ CASE WAS USED TO SHOW HOW THE STATION
FOCUSES ON AN INDIVIDUAL, PRIMARY TARGET. IT WAS A LIVELY
SESSION, WITH CONGRESSMAN ROBINSON AND SNODGRASS! THE "LIVE
WIRES" OF THE GROUP. QUESTIONS WERE OF A ROUTINE NATURE
PRIMARILY RELATED TO INCIDENTAL OPS DETAILS. FOR EXAMPLE,
CONGRESS MAN ROBINSON NOTED THAT HE FELT IT RATHER EASY TO IDENTIFY
THE SENIOR AGENCY OFFICERS OF A MISSION BECAUSE OF THE WAY THEY
HAPPEN TO BE INTERFACED ADMINISTRATIVELY WITHIN AN EMBASSY
COS RESPONSE WAS THAT SUCH IS OFTEN TRUE, BUT THAT STATIONS AND
HOS. MA NA GEMENT ARE FOCUSING ON THAT SPECIFIC PROBLEM, AND THAT THE
WELCH INCIDENT HAS CERTAINLY ACCELERATED OUR EFFORTS IN THAT
RE GA RD

3. ALL BUT A FEW MINUTES OF THE ENTIRE HOUR WAS.
SPENT IN DISCUSSING STATION OPS. GEORGE CARY CERTIFIED
THAT THE GROUP WAS "WITTING" AND A FEW QUESTIONS AND
ISSUES WERE ADDRESSED ON THE SPECIAL SAND T SUBJECT
SECRET

13-00000
:
7-71.MFG. 2/75:

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER
TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH.
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITI
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED,
-
STAFF
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
BY
AT
Z
RF FILE VR
2
5
6
ACTION
INFO

T 602263 EIA422 PAGE 03 IN 794546
ON BR 21033
TORI150052Z JAN 76

(N-793209)
SNODGRASS WAS THE FOCAL POINT OF THAT EXCHANGE, AND IT
IS REPORTED IN SEPARATE CABLE (CANBERRA 21027) AT
SNODGRASS REQUEST STATION HAD ARRANGED A SPECIAL MEETING
WITH A SELECT GROUP OF GO OFFICIALS, THE DETAILS OF THAT
MEETING AND AN ADDITIONAL ONE EARLIER IN THE AFTERNOON OF
THE 13TH WITH DEFENSE ARE ALSO DETAILED IN CANBERRA 21029.ON
BECAUSE OF SOME RATHER UNUSUAL DEVELOPMENTS IN THE DE
MEETINGS, SUGGEST CEA AND C/EA/PMI REVIEW REFERENCED
CABLE. THE CABLE WAS GIVEN RESTRICTED HANDLING BY STATION
BECAUSE OF THE SENSITIVITY OF IT'S CONTENT,
S
4. THE MEETING LASTED THE FULL HOUR AND THE CONGRENS-
MEN INDICATED THAT THEY WERE WELL-SATISFIED WITH WHAT HAD
BEEN CONVERED. COS STRESSED THAT WE WERE AVAILABLE TO
CONTINUE ON THE SUBJECT AFTER THE FORMAL AGENDA OF THE DAY
WAS COMPLETED, BUT THEY INDICATED THE SUBJECT HAD BEEN.
ADEQUATELY COVERED. THERE WAS NO FURTHER STATION CONTACT
WI TH THE CONGRESSMEN DURING THEIR VISIT. THE STAFFERS
DEPARTED ON THEIR "V IS IT" IN THE EMBASSY CONVA IR ON SCHEDULE,
AND WILL RETURN DIRECT TO SYDNEY BY CONVAIR ON THE 14TH,
ARRIVING AT ABOUT 2300, E2, IMPDE T.

SECRET )*

13-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER Sop112 TOTAL COPIES 10/ RUN BY
SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER T
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBI
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
C/EA3
BY
AT
RF. FILE. VR
NFO
DDD
STAFF

DEI REVIEW SHAFF, CS/RF
SADDO OLC

2
5
3
6

ACTION #

T 595025 EIA412
PAGE 01-01
IN 791659
TOR:122154Z JAN 76
CNER 21007

SECRET 1220402 JAN 75 STAFF
CITE CANBERRA 21007.

TO JAKARTA INFO DIRECTOR.
RYBAT PLMHCONGA CODEL RANDALL AND ADDA BB O

REFS: A. JAKARTA 35606 (10787635)
B. JAKARTA 35661 (Ιω 790579)

CANBERRA STATION MUCH APPRECIATES ADVANCED REPORTING
ON CODELS. WAS HELPFUL WITH THE RANDALL GROUP, AND AM SURE
WILL BE VALUABLE WITH ADDABBO GROUP AS WELL. REGARDS.
E2 IMPDET,

SECRET

13-00000
FORM 3020b
7-11 MFG. 2/75
4 PER SOP 112 TOTAL COPIE 60
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED,
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
BY
AT
Z
FILE
VR
DCI (REVIEW STAFF)
CBA3 000, CS/RF SA/000 DOLC
ACTION#

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE
STAFF

4
2
5
3
6
T 293616
E1A024
FAGE 01
IN 791004.
TOR121111Z JAN 76
JKRT 35674

SECRET 1209392 JAN 76 STAFF
CITE JAKARTA 35674
TO: DIRECTOR.
RYBAT PLMHCUNGA CODEL ADDABBO

REF: JAKARTA 35661 (790579)
1. AT RECEPTION AT HOME OF CHARGE NIGHT OF 11 JANUARY,
REPRESENTATIVE ADDABBO MADE POINT OF TELLING COS THAT STATION
BRIEFING AS PER REF WAS "DAMN. GOOD" AND THAT HE APPRECIATED THE
FRANK ANSWERS TO THE DELEGATION'S QUESTIONS.

2, MR. SNODGRASS ALSO VOLUNTERRED THAT THE BRIEFING HAD
IMPACTED FAVORABLY ON THE DELEGATION AND THAT THEY WERE SURPRISED
AND PLEASED TO GET SUCH STRAIGHTFORWARD ANSWERS TO THEIR QUESTIONS..
HE ADDED THAT WHAT OFTEN GAVE HIM TROUBLE WAS STATEMENTS BY
AGENCY OFFICERS THAT THEY HAD BEEN PURSUING SOVIET OFFICIALS FOR
TEN YEARS OR MORE AND HAD NOT YET RECRUITED ONE. HE ALLUDED TO
THIS AS THE BUREAUCRAT'S DREAM, BEING PERPETUALLY PAID FOR SEEKING
THE HOLY GRAIL WITHOUT EVER FINDING IT. COS POINTED OUT TO MR.
SNUDGRASS THAT SOVIETS WERE BEING RECRUITED AND THAT THE WORK
OF UNE STATION. WHICH MIGHT NOT HESULT IN RECRUITMENT WOULD BE
THE VERY BASIS ON WHICH ANOTHER STATION IS ABLE TO MAKE A SUCCESSFUL
SECRET
:

13-00000
7-71. MFG..2/75

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER
TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH.
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
:
STAFF
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
AT
Z
RF. FILE. VR
2
5
3
6
ACTION#
NFO

T 593616
E1A024 FAGE 02 IN 791004
Τα R: 121111Z JAN 76 JK.RT 35674

RECRUITMENT APPROACH, IN COST EFFECTIVENESS TERMS, ALSO POINTED
OUT THAT THE RECRUITMENT OF A SINGLE SOVIET COULD AND DOES RESULT
IN A MORE ACCURATE APPRAISAL OF THE SOVIET THREAT AND THUS A MORE
A
RELIST IC ALLOCATION OF FUNDS TO MEET IT. MR. SNOD GRASS ADMITTED
1
THAT THIS WAS SO BUT ADDED HIS UPINION THAT MORE RATHER THAN LESS
CONGRESSIONAL CONTACT WITH CIA FIELD PERSONNEL AS IN JAKARTA
WOULD BE A PLUS FOR THE AGENCY AND GIVE THE CONGRESS A BETTER
FEEL FOR OUR ENDEA VORS AND PROBLEMS.
5. MR. CAREY ALSO SAID THAT ON THE BASIS OF HIS TALKS WITH
MEMBERS OF THE DELEGATION IT APPEARED THAT THE BRIEFING HAD GONE
DOWN WELL AND THAT THEY FELT THEY WERE BEING GIVEN AN ACCURATE
AND INTERESTING INSIGHT.
4, THUS IT SEEMS THAT STATION DID GET THROUGH TO THE DELEGATION
DESPITE THE INITIAL IMPRESSION THAT THEY WERE GENERALLY LETHARGIC
ABOUT IT.

.:
5. NEW SUBJECT: DOES HEADQUARTERS HAVE ANY SPECIFIC
INSTRUCTIONS FUR HANDLING OF CODEL DIGGS? E2,. IMPDET.
SECRET

13-00000

FORM 3020b :
7-71: MFG. 2/75
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 28 PER SOP 112 TOTAL COPIES 10 10 RUN BY
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE

STAFF PRESEDENT

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
JEA 3
BY
AT
RF FILE VR DCI/REVIEW STAFF
2
3
5
CS/RF D00, 50/000 2/OLC
ACTION

1592728
Ε1Α152
PAGE 01
IN 790651
TOR:1122337 JAN 76
CNBR 21000

SECRET 112220Z JAN 76 STAFF

CITE CANBERRA 21000
TO: IMMEDIATE WELLINGTON INFO DIRECTOR.
RYBAT PLMHCONGA CONGRESSMAN MILFORD

REF: WELLINGTON 15837(1~787572)
1. CONGRESSMAN MILFORD DESIRES REFERENCED MEETING AT 0800
AND WILL EXPECT CONTACT FOR DETAILS UPON HIS ARRIVAL.
2. HE IS VERY EASY TO TALK TO AND AM SURE YOU WILL ENJOY
THE MEETING. HE MET HERE WITH HEADS OF LIAISON SERVICES, ABOUT
45 MINUTES WITH EACH. HIS PRINCIPAL QUESTIONS ARE WOHAT THEY
THINK OF THE CURRENT INVESTIGATIONS, WHAT IMPACT HAVE THEY HAD
ON FOREIGN INTEL RELATIONS, ETC.

3. HE HAS A MINOR HEARING PROBLEM, SO SHOULD ARRANGE TO
HAVE HIM SEATED AS CLOSE AS POSSIBLE TO BRIGADIER GILBERT.
4. BEST REGARDS. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET

13-00000
!
FORM 3020b
7-71 MFG. 2/75
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 28 PER
Sop112
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE
BEEREDENCE
10-1 SECRET RUN BY
TOTAL COPIES
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
BY
AT
1
2
3
4683
RF FILE: VR. DCI/REVIEW
CS/RF, DDO. Sappo. 2/060.
ACTION
N

1592741 Ε1Α165
PAGE 01 IN 790652
TOR:112313Z JAN 76 CNBR 21001

SECRET 112305Z JAN 75 STAFF

CITE CANBERRA 21001

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
RYBAT PLMHCONGA RTBUSHEL (DUCKETT)
SUBJECT: MILFORD VISIT

1. COS SPENT ABOUT EIGHT HOURS WITH CONGRESSMAN MILFORD
ON 10 JANUARY, AND BELIEVE HE WENT AWAY TOTALLY SATISFIED THAT
HE HAD ACCOMPLISHED HIS OBJECTIVES HERE. HE MET WITH
SQUASH DIRECTOR GENERAL, D/JIO AND SOTERN/44, EACH FOR ABOUT 45.
MINUTES AND ALL MEETINGS WENT WELL. ALSO WORKED THE MEETING IN
WITH THE NASA REP AND THAT ALSO APPEARED TO GO WELL, AS DID THE
MEETING ON THE SPECIAL SANDT SUBJECT.

2. INCIDENTAL CONVERSATIONS HELD WITH WILSON AND DICKINSON,
DEALING WITH TERRORISM QUESTION. ENTIRE DELEGATION WAS VERY
FRIENDLY AND A PLEASURE TO DEAL WITH. JACK MAURY'S PRESENCE
WAS AN ASSET..

3. DETAILED SUMMARY OF DAY'S ACTIVITY BEING FORWARDED
THIS DATE. E2 IMPDET.
SECRET
:

13-00000
FORM 3020b
7-71 MFG: 2/75
21
DCI( REVIEW STAFF)
TOTAL COPIES 10-2 RUN BY
CABLT SEC DISSEM BY 47 PER SOP 112
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:
STAFF PRECEDENCE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
AT.. Z

FILE VR DCI(REVIEW STAFF)
