14-00000
104-10180-10050

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FCS933
12151
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF SECURITY
REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION

CA 
4/23/68
то:
"Duncon

DO NOT WRITE ABOVE THIS LINE
FULL NAME (PRINT OR TYPE) (Last, First, Middle Name)
ROgelio RODRIGUEZ Lopeż

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
May 3, 1942
Favara

 SEX

ALIASES AND NICKNAMES
MARITAL STATUS
previous check 9/15/67
uk
Cuban

OCCUPATION AND NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER
(Print or type)
Estimated First Secretary of the
Cuban Permanent Mission to UN

ADDRESS
ADDITIONAL IDENTIFYING DATA
#701

CONTROL: THIS REQUEST PLACED WITH THE OFFICE OF SECURITY BY:
DIVISION OR AGENCY
DATE
reason for requeST, OR TYPE OF PROGRAM
Visa office

NAME OR REQUESTING OFFICER
Suncan
31-7 Cuba
RESULTS OF THIS REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION:
CHECKED BY
NO RECORD
NO DEROGATORY INFORMATION
:
:
SECURITY INFORMATION ATTACHED
OTHER See reverse side for
Special
CATE
Rev Nov 1-14-68

III FOR USE OF OFFICE OF SECURITY:
For information concerning Subject you are referred to CSCI-3/752,001 dated
27 June 1964, subject as above, and CSCI-316/20696-64 dated 25 August 1964,
subject: Shipment of Explosives to Mexico, and to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
KTJ
26 April 1968

FILE IN 201-332665

2: APR 1968
14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATI
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPYISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
TOTAL COF
27
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN BY
GROUP 1
S
4
6
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

BY:
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNITS
ACTION NO
ACTION AT:
1
H8 PER
FILE
345 -240 YESNOFILE, VR Clip dated clips 8/1/02
-CPL CP/ave DDp w2DD

SECRET 2516142 AUG 70 CITE DO BASE WASHINGTON, 2790
DO BASE, NEW YORK INFO: DIRECTOR
AKULE/DOMOPS/AMROSE/WUSLAB
REF: DO BASE WASHINGTON 2781
(~146109)

1. WUSLAB LUNCHED WITH ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ (201-332665)
AT BEAUX ARTS HOTEL, NEW YORK CITY, 21 AUGUST 1970.

2. RODRIGUEZ STATED HE INTERESTED OPINIONS NOT DOCUMENTS AND
SUGGESTED WUSLAB/1 TALK TO PROMINENT US AND LATIN AMERICAN
OFFICIALS IN GOVERNMENT, INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS, AND FOUNDATIONS
TO DETERMINE WHAT IS IN THE WIND RE US POLICY TOWARD CUBA. RODRIGUEZ
CONTENDED THAT THERE ARE MANY FACTORS INDICATING INCREASED U.S. N
PRESSURE ON CUBA. THIS SITUATION FORCES CUBA TO NEED ACCOMODATE OWN
REVOLUTION WITHIN RIGID SYSTEM OF INTERNATIONAL COMMUNISM AND AWAY FROM
INDEPENDENT PRINCIPLES OF 26 JULY MOVEMENT. THUS CUBAN SOCIETY IS 3X-
NOT THE JOYFUL ONE FIDEL PROMISED.

3. RODRIGUEZ GAVE WUSLAB/I LARGE HIBASTE INTER OFFICE ENVELOPE
CONTAINING BOOK BY RAUL ROA, BROADSIDE BY VICTOR VACCARO, AND COPIES OF
GRAMMA AND VERDE OLIVO.

4. RODRIGUEZ EXERTED NO PRESSURE ON WUSLAB/I AND SEEMED SATISFIED
WHEN WUSLAB/1 REMARKED THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY NOT GO NYC AGAIN FOR SOME
23-16-337/3
CS COPY 201-332665
SECRET
14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET IN 149698
PAGE 3
PAGE TWO DO BASE WASHINGTON 2790 SECRET
TIME. POUCHING DETAILS THIS MEETING.

5. FILE: 200-6-337/3 AND 201-332665. GP-1.
SECRET
14-00000
TOTAL
ORIG:
UNITI:
JOIN V. BURKE: GHD
WH/COG/OPS
WHICOG. ORs.
4164/1325 25 November 1970
CABLE SI CRETARIAT LASSEMINATION
CLASSIFICGMESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
PERSON INIT NOTIFIED
2
ADVANCE COPY,
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNITS
ISSUED
SLOTTED
ROUTING AN FOR INITIALS SEEN BY
GROUP I
5
6
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
3
8
BY:
AT:
:
ACTION NO
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
ACTION UNITS
1
H8 PER
YES
NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
KREF TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE, VR,
BRANCH
24/0
(date and time filled)
CTYPIC DOSHOPS AMROSE WUSLAB
(classification)
SECRET
777320
INFO DO BASE NEW YORK NH/MIAMI
(reference manter)
(pics)
CITE DIRECTOR
(DO BASE WASHINGTON

0900587

1. PLEASE ADVISE IF WUSLAB-I'S ANSTAFF CASE OFFICER
ARRANGED TO TURN WUSIAB-1 OVER TO OTHER AMSTAFFER. ALSO
WOULD APPRECIATE LATEST INFO ON WUSLAB-1'S NEXT ASSIGNMENT
WITH HTBASTE.
2. FILE: 201-332665 AND 200-6-337/3.

MICROFILMED
DEC-9 1970
END OF MESSAGE
DOC, MICRO, SER.
AC/WH/COG
WHICLOPS

JOHN F. MARKHAM
C/DOI/2
D200-6-337/3
RELEASING OFFICER
63 COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
WILLIAM V. BROE
GROUP 1
Cectarsatぞう
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
27 Νον 1970
201-332665
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.
14-00000
- DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATICH
SECRET
PROCESS ING ACTION
UNNAARD for INDEX ING
10
Chief, WH Division
INO
Chief, DO Division
INFO
X
NO INDEIING REQUIRED
FEC
ONLY QURIE F D DESK
CAN FUNGE INDEXING
Chief of Base, Washington
(AKULE TYPIC AMORSE WUSLAB USILARP DOMOPS
WUSHARP request for assistance
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
MIRROR
Action Required: For Your Information
Reference
DO BASE WASHINGTON 2989
1. On 14 December 1970, the undersigned visited WUSHARP
at the latter's request and had the following discussion,
WUSHARP asked whether we could use. WUSLAB/1 as a means of
contacting Cuban officials for the purpose of establishing
lties which could later be exploited by WUSHARP assets.:
I explained to WUSHARP that WUSLAB/1 had been instructed
to adopt a passive role in relationship to his Cuban
contacts, and to respond only to contact initiated by the
Cubans. WUSHARP stated that they understand our point of view
thoroughly.

2. At this meeting I briefed WUSHARP on the telephone
call from a DGI representative cited in reference. I told
WUSHARP that I would give them a memorandum on this as well
as a copy of the PCQ on Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez (201-332665)
in which they expressed definite interest.

CROSS REFERENCE TO
Distribution:
Orig and 1 - C/WH
2-C/DO

Joseph G. BENSON

200-6-337/3
DISPATCH STMSOL AND NUMBER
UNCA-6085
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
201-332665
DATE
16 DEC 1500
15 December 1970
MOS FILE NUMBER
200-6-337/3
14-00000

ROUTING AND/O
ORIG:
UNITI
M. BURKE: mli
/COG/OPS
-41/0819
27 MÀY 1970
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
INDETITIALS
SECRET
DATE:
BY
DE
CONF
(classification)
PER
WH8
TO
INDEX
ACTION UNITS
7
1800
NO INDEX
RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO:
FILE, VR,
INFO
(elite)
(reference musmber)
(pica)
SECRET
38015
DO BASE NEW YORK WH/MIAMI 20 105121 79 CITE DIRECTOR
RYBAT TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE
038015.
REFS: A. DO BASE NEW YORK-7800 (IN-090897)

B. UNDW-3230, 15 ΜΛΥ 70

1. WITH ONE EXCEPTION ALL PERTINENT AVAILABLE
INFORMATION ON ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ AVAILABLE AT HQS
WAS FORWARDED TO ADDRESSEES WITH REF B. EXCEPTION CONCERNS
TOP SECRET REPORTS FROM LNERGO ON RODRIGUEZ OPS INVOLVING
EMPLOYEE OF SOUTH AFRICAN EMBASSY IN WASH D.C. AND POSSIBLE
OP AGAINST STATE DEPARTMENT THROUGH THIS SOURCE OF HIS,
BELIEVE CURRENT LNERGO HQS INTEREST IN RODRIGUEZ IS POSSIBLY
DUE TO OUR RECENT PRODDING THEM FOR ANY INFO THEY MAY HAVE
DEVELOPED ON HIM THROUGH THEIR INVESTIGATION THIS SOURCE..
FYI: HQS IS ALSO CURRENTLY LOOKING AT RODRIGUEZ AS PRIORITY
TARGET BECAUSE OF LARGE NUMBER OF PRESENT AND FORMER JKLANCE
ASSETS WHO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH HIM (SEE REF B).
2. CONCUR TILAT SUBJECT BE MADE PRIORITY CASE FOR AMOTS.
3
25 May
RELEASING OFFICER
CS COPY
/CONTINUED/

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Encludes tre automatic
duang and
Ceclassifications
ADEX
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
心
4
3
2
1
COPY NO.
14-00000
OING
UNITI
EXT:
DATE
CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
MESSAGE FCRIA
TUTAL COPIE
SECRET
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEFI
TO
INFO
PER
718
FILE, VR;

(classification)
SECRET
(date and tima filed)
(elite)
(reference number)
(pic)
CITE DIRECTOR
38015

PAGE 2
INDEX
NO INDEX
HETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RIO
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

HOWEVER, SUGGEST THAT BASE MAY WISH TO DISCUSS POSSIBLE
COORDINATED FOUR-PRONGED APPROACH TO RODRIGUEZ AS A TARGET.
FIRST IS AMOT APPROACH. SECOND, JKLANCE DEFECTORS AND AGENTS
WHO KNOW SUBJECT. THIRD, LNERGO ASSETS. FOURTH, LNERGO's
ABILITY TO ENTRAP SUBJECT AND HIS CURRENT ASSETS IN LEGALY
ACTIONABLE ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND APPLY CARROT OR STICK
ULTIMATUM. CAN BASE ASCERTAIN WHAT, IF ANY, ACCESS AGENTS
LNERGO NOW HAS NEXT TO RODRIGUEZ? EXTENT OF LOCAL LNERGO
KNOWLEDGE OF RODRIGUEZ OPS IN WASH, D.C.? ALSO, CAN BASE
ASCERTAIN IF LNERGO "TARGET STUDY" IS FOR PURPOSE OF DEFECTION,
RECRUITMENT IN PLACE, OR DOUBLE AGENT OP?
:
3. FOR MIAMI: PLEASE PROCESS AMOT STUDY SOONEST,
ADVISE WHICH OF JKLANCE ASSETS MENTIONED REF B STUDY ON
RODRIGUEZ CAN BE UTLIZED THIS CASE FOR ASSESSMENT OR APPROACH,
AND MAKE SUBJECT AND HIS FAMILY PRIORITY REQUIREMENT FOR NEXT
AMANVIL DEBRIEFING.

/CONTINUED/
GROUP 1
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
Excluded from automatic
down,tiding and
eclarsification
REPRODUCT BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I PROHIBITED.
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTORTING
"OFFICER

...
Cory No.
14-00000
ORIG.
UNIT:
DATO
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEFI
BY.
PER
SECRET
CONH
FILE, VR,
(classification)
SECRET
INDEX
NO-INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RIO
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
PAGE 3
(date and tuna filed).
(elite)
(referenca number)
(pica)
TO
CITE DIRECTOR
138015

4. FILE: 201-332665.
END OF MESSAGE
WIH/COG/Comment: *Référence, attached, concerns FBI request
for AMOT support in preparing target study, and probably
a déféction attempt, against a DGI officer stationed at
the CMUN.
WILLIAM V./BROE
DO/I/B2

5
2
1

C/WHD
GORDON JORGENSEN
C/DO
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
JAMES E. FLANNERY
C/WH/COG
GROUP 1
Excluded from automati:
downgrading an
Crclassificati
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO
000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON UNIT NOTIPILO
CLAIFIED MESSAGE,
TOTAL COPIES (22
POUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEN OY
ADVANCE COPY
DYSSEM OF DRE
ACTION UNIT
IWHE
ACTION NO.
ISSUED
-240
SLOTTED
SECRET
GROUP I
PRELISTOPA
(When Filled In)
DECLANIFICAT
6
7
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED,
INDERIVES NO
CLASSIFY, TO CS FILE NO.
Z..
X-RE TO LEN
FILE RID RETURN TO
8
PAGE 1 OF 2
BRANCH
BRANCH
FILE, VR COD CIRCA DIDE ADDe astro C/CIS/F12

DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI
RYBAT TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE
1.
2. WHILE RECOGNIZING THAT JKLANCE PROGRAM TO UNCOVER
RELATIVES AND FRIENDS OF DGI OFFICIALS ASSIGNED ABROAD HAS
NOT AS YET PROGRESSED TΟ ΕΧΑΜΙΝΑΤΙΟN OF DGI OFFICIALS IN
NEW YORK, LOCAL LNERGO INFORMALLY HAS ASKED IF SURVEY COULD
BE MADE ASAP OF ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ (201-332665),
CMUN FIRST SECRETARY AND DGI OFFICER. LOCAL LNERGO HAS
RECEIVED DIRECTIVE FROM ITS HDQS TO COMPILE DETAILED
REPORT ON RODRIGUEZ AND HIS ACTIVITIES AND FORWARD "TARGET
STUDY" TO LINERGO HDQS. BECAUSE OF PREVIOUS AMANVIL/I AND
OTHER REPORTING ON RODRIGUEZ, AND BECAUSE HE NOT NOW MARRIED,
LNERGO HDQS APPARENTLY FEELS HE SHOULD BE PRIME TARGET FOR
APPROACH. LOCAL LNERGO QUITE WILLING INFORMALLY COORDINATE
ACTIVITY WITH BASE. THUS, WOULD APPRECIATE WHATEVER INFO
ADDEES CAN PROVIDE AS TO ANY LEADS TO RODRIGUEZ VIA RELATIVES
OR FRIENDS WHO MAY BE IN U.S. AT PRESENT.
3. RODRIGUEZ BORN 3 MAY 42 HAVANA. FORMERLY MARRIED TO
CS COPY 201-332665
SECRET
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IN 070877 PAGE 12
PAGE 2 DO BASE NEW YORK 7800 SECRET
ESTHER GAVILAN NOGALES, DPOB NOT KNOWN. SON EDUARDO ABOUT
SIX YEARS OLD, RESIDES CUBA CITY NOT KNOWN. PARENTS NAMES
NOT KNOWN, BUT FATHER REPORTEDLY LONG TIME MEMBER PSP.
RODRIGUEZ PERMANENT CUBAN ADDRESS LISTED SEPTEMBER 67 AS
CALLE 30, VEDADO, HAVANA.
BASE JUDGES THAT PROMPT PROVISION OF SURVEY DATA
INFORMALLY TO LOCAL LNERGO WOULD BOTH ENCOURAGE ACTION
AGAINST RODRIGUEZ AND PERSUADE LOCAL LINERGO TO DEEPEN
COOPERATION CONCERNING THIS AND OTHER OPS AGAINST
LOCAL CUBAN TARGET. THUS REQUEST SOONEST ACTION BY HQS.

5.. FILE 201-332665. NO INDEX. GP-1.
SECRET

BID
SECRET
FBI doc.
21 May 70 (Ny)
Re. Cuban Mission to the United
Natuns
no Bufile given

FBI doc.
11. May 70 (Ny)
Re: Rieclio Rodriguez Lopez
no Bufile given

FBI doc.
7 May. 70 (NY)
Re: Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez
no Butile given..

FBI doc.
4 May 70 (Wash)
Re: Rogelw Roctriquez Lopez
Bufile: (NI) 105-130905
14-00000

27 APR 1970
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION : Mr. D. J. Erennan...
SUBJECT : Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, Cuban
Intelligence Officer

1.. Reference is made to your previous correspondence
concerning Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, First Secretary of the
Cuban Mission to the United Nations (CMUN) and an officer
of the Cuban General Directorate of Intelligence (DGI).
Rodriguez is the CUIS Case Officer for Jennifer Enid Miles,
a South African patiocal, now under investigation by the
Bureau. Your most recent memorandum on Rodriguez and Miles
was dated 26 January 1970.

2. On 30 January 1970, there was a liaison discussion
about Miles and Rodriguez at which time your representatives
advised that your Bureau planned to interview Miles, on an
appropriate pretext, and that there were signs that she
might be susceptible to "doubling". We recognize that the
Miles Rodriguez case is an internal security responsibility
of the Bureau but, to assist us in our efforts to assess
Rodriguez as a DGI officer, it would be appreciated if
you would provide us with the results of your interview
with Miles as well as personality information about him
that she way acquire in the future.

3. We would also like to have your comments about
considering Rodriguez as a potential penetration of the
DGI in Cuba. There is the possibility that Miles might
be used to assist in approaching Rodriguez if, for
example, she has refused to cooperate as a double agent
or later if internal security considerations warrant an
approach to Rodriguez.
FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: Raymond G. Rosca
James ANGLETON

CIOL-00061-70
14,00000
SEONET
-2
DDP/MI/COG/OPS/JBurke:jaf
21 April 1970
Distributton:
Orig & 1 Addressee
1 -C/CI
1
-WH/COG/OPS
FILE: 201-860915

SECRET
-
14-00000
A-5697..
EXTRACT AND CROSS-REFERENCE
DOCUGNI SION
PATE OF DO
29 Apr 70, Aut. 5
200-4-237/3
DOC. SUBH
NO
70
TRANSMISSION
SOURCE INFORMATION
SOURCE CRYPTONYM
DATE OF INFO.
WUSLAB/1
report dated 13. Apr.
Feeting on 10 Apr 70;

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite docs distribution. Dissen. No., etc. if applicable)

2. Production: WUSLAB/1 said that José Raul Viera Linares
had phoned him at his home at about 1100 on 8 April. Viera said
that a friend had described to him an acquaintance who had had
an eye problem similar to USLAB/1 (or words to that effect),
and that Viera now realized the seriousness of the case and
that WUSLAB/1 would not be able to travel. Viera said that
the chances were now remote that he would be returning to New
York. A friend of his named "Rogelio" would contact WUSLAB/1.
He did not say when or where, but it would be when circumstances
permit. WUSLAB/1 asked if Viera might be assigned to another
foreign country. Viera did not deign to answer this question.

3. I asked WUSLAB/1 what he considered the possibilities
of recruiting Viera were. He thought an important factor would
be Viera's liking of comfort and security. He would not be
motivated by money, but he did like good living. He also pro-
bably did not like living in Havana, and would not like to stay
there for a very long period. W/1 thought that if Viera came
out to a country such as Spain that contact with him could
casily be developed. In the United States Viera was on his
guard. Also in the United States Viera did not have high level
contacts with the local government, whereas in other countries
he would be expected to have such contacts. Some of those con-
tacts might then be also in contact with U.S. officials and you
could get a cross-check on Viera. I told WUSLAB/1 that we would
finish the PCQ form on Viera the next time we get together.

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.
SUBJECT OF 201 (Last. First, Middle),
ORM
68
OSSOLE E
867 PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
201-
SECRET (7-46)
GROUP I
14-00000

SECRET
(men Filled In),
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2. RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4 DATE
7-SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. D. EVALUATION'
ANALYST
DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE..
13. TRANSFERRED TO
'RI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGEL 10 019-005-042
201-332665 UNDA-04862401
SEX M COB ? 14 APR 70
CIT ? +19-500
OCC ?. P3
MBR OF CUBAN UN MISSION AS OF 10 APR 70
UFA R 7004230770
15.
FILE THIS. FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM
87 867 use PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SECRET
FILE IN 201-332665
(7-46)
14-00000

FILE, VR
When Falk In)

ILOTTILO
1
5
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

REPRODUCTION OF HIS COPY PO
23
DDH
625
CLASSIFY TOCH FILE NO.
ANI TOTE NO.
RITURN το
BRANCH
SECRET 1021137 APRIL 78 CITE DO BASE WASHINGTON 2574
DO BASE/NEW YORK INFO DIRECTOR

ISOLOG PERUMEN WUSLAB.

REF: DO PASE/NEW YORK 7515 (N052716)
10A060596

1. JOSE PAUL VIERA LINARES PHONED WUSLAB/1 MORDING
S APŠIL SAID MOST LIKELY WOULD NOT BE KETURNING TO PEW
YORK UNDERSTOOD "ATURE JUSLAS/I'S HEALTH WOULD PREVENT
WIS TRAVELLING. HIS FRIEND "ROCELIO" WOULD CONTACT.
USLAB/1. GAVE NO DETAILS FUTURE CONTACT.

2. VIERA DID NOT ANSWER WUSLAR/I'S QUESTION AS TO WHETHER
WE WOULD BE ASSIGNED ANOTHER POST OUTSIDE CUSA.

3. LOCAL LNERGO BELIEVES "ROGELIO" MAY DE KOGELIO
CODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, FIRST SECRETARY CUSAN PERMANENT MISSION.
4. FILE: 201-322053 AND. 200-6-337/3. GP-1.
SECRET
201-332665
SECRET

D
FBI doc.
Fo mar. 70 (NY)
Re: Joanna Faith Haas
no Bufile given
14-00000

ig
10.
1

Chief of
C
d'
pers
:ששכח

ON c
AGIC: כשרמת: FYI, excent to appropriate 201 filed, and por
:
paragraph 7
A.
:
DIAMOR02 010338
7379 להסרת כת .B
C. DO ME/RW YORK 7575

1. Transmitted horowith as an attachment to the dispatch are
one copy orch for W/CCG and of the Aldebriefing
resalts on CUN UN and DGI Center commol and activities. in New York
The Salomatica was obtained obta by Couwing short necting 22
Here 1970 (Cho information on Tecfiio A0032 and "GO" vas
obtained jointly by ESTOU and SIA. Other information ras
Ferrarded via Reference D. Information on Fodro Luis Photo Firin
(11-084076), Thai Lorty and 13 officer, aino tas cabled
septoly via Rolerenco C.
.:

2. Copies of the attached have been passed by FIGALAN to the
leeal Enco office. "G" in the icenl code pare used bסילכ
Sup and LIE:30 to designate AVI/1. As addressees will
aste, the attached abrot on PIANO vakes no montion of the mo
מגניbיות מכde co and reported by hin; rather then mite such
madon a atter of record within GO FIGALAN merely passed
tias information to LACO crally 28 March.
/continued

Actechconts:
is Stated, 11/
Distribution:
Grig. & 1- Chief, W/CCG, 1/8 ce of attachmento,
2-COS, WI/, /2 co of attachments, /
CCC Chief, Do Division, Wo attachments

GOS RITENUTO
Exc
DISPATCH SYCOL ACID KULCSTス
DATE
UND1-4041
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
25 March 1970
HOS FILE AU312
19-8-183/3
14-00000

DISPATCH
interent corpora PIN סון fog catback cctivity,
not only here bút cigemors.
(061-000959), CTN Comedor, told the
that's contact chia anncom Neure (publishing fimm) one
Jason (no furilor bio cata avaliabic).
T

5. To the attached intention on abito k
CHO C
Go told the wester-time one Iowa remantic Involvemot
:
(ios) Jogan Faith AS
133: 1947
ששת: Deloved U.S.A
CIT: U.S.
cec: (or inteon), General
York City.
the Hospital, Kow

This young Lady, who is part of all catch, is the daughter of a
Hey Ferk taxi driver. She visited con in 1969. iron technical
wave of the CN10 is are that 13X Center Chief Criando
Cuticeren (201-89008), topointy,
weit with is át (one mosaing
phered the young
'n aparent at 0015 האמן to cut
were there(.
believes that nemicu intent in AS is romantic only;
et oposed to PIERO's interest in Mildred AUS Ortis, por the
attached chest.

6. De war-ס כלס כן "כי" כזתהttrched sheet, FIGLIAN believes
that MAY/ my be sintaken in the yotr "G" was here as part
of the Colan Dolention to the Compral Assembly; as related
below, there are possibtistics for " in both 1007 and 2033
1:37 there are the following perernalitics who could to identicni
with "AGO":

A. Joaquin Camilo GARCIA Morco, bora 15 August 1987 in
Kavana;

Rio;
E. Gonzalo DIAZ Dien, born 25 November 1965 in Pires col

C. Pedro Juan Veloso, born C March 1903 in las
Villas;

D. Carlos E. ANTELO Perez, born 15 January 1963 in Pinar
del Rio;

E. Gonzalo DEPO Sole (201-720312), bor: 10 January 1930
in Havanב.

In 2003 there are the following personalities who could be identical
ERASES":

F. Eduardo AOZ Agero (201-040196), born 21 March 20 in
Las Villas;

G. Gonzalo GONZALM Custo, born 15 November 13:2 in
Havana;

H. Crescencio . RAUCIA Pacz, born 14 September 1941
in Kavana;
DOS 12-P

CLASSIFICATI
SEC
14-00000
Oricntc;

Alvaro 2.0 20 20 2943 in

J. Toyo Vocal, bown, 20 July 1993 in Tavana;

K. Julica Toms Rio, bora i Sopte ber 1944 in Rovers.

Gullers members of the inc, Delegations for 1007 and 1963 we have been
able to clinteate because they are ce not Fox personnel. and/or
Woms then sufficiently to cele cut the possibility that
they are identicnd with "ACTO". If the turnаме coron солеспроnce to the
tovo napone ali, then it would anyone that the two most likely.
cdates 10" To "GO" are euardo An 20% feero (801-010126) and Carles
Feren. The latter was boro in 1967; 67; AZACZ here in 1900. We
Jenn toward A.
:
7. Should addressees be able to shed any light on the true
icoutity of "650" 5 would be nest interested. Even if this is not
bly we will know oneally who he is should acula his
.

i
The attached sheets should be extracted to the appropriate
201 files. To facilitate this the 201 1 nanbero wers are listed below:

Orla Jando FEMRA Coralca (201-048505)
Podro LAUS 16 Pin (01-07)

Li
::
Orlando PRERES Gutierren (201-300002)
Ricardo ALARCON Cueside (201-827000)
:
Howard G. FIGATAN
CLASSIFICATION
A-4530
USE PASTO
ST
RYEST
CONTINUED

PACE NO
3
14-00000
101-4841
:
7. Recruitment Targets. Subjectively, Source considers that
the most vulnerable of the CMUN personnel aré Rogelio RODRIGUEZ
Lopez, Ambassador ALARCON, and Pedro Amado MORALES Carballo.
RODRIGUEZ because he likes the ladies and the material things in
life; ALARCON because of his strained relationship with PRENDES;
and MORALES because he is basically a good sort and a realistic
person. As stated, this is subjective reasoning on Source's Source's part.

CUSTA
CUSTA RODRIGUEZ
701-755744

8. Replacement Personnel. With VIERA and PINERO leaving soon,
there is talk in Havana about assigning one Teofilo ACOSTA here as
a replacement for one or the other. ACOSTA is a negro in his early
30s and has served in several African posts for the DGI (including
Tanzania and Mozambique). ACOSTA has been protected by Manuel
PINEIRO Losada, former DGI chief, but is disliked by most MINREX
types who know him. Source described ACOSTA as a sly and suspicious
person who would not hesitate to report on anyone, including his
friends and neighbors. ACOSTA is believed to have been deeply in-
volved in various "wars of liberation" in Africa. ACOSTA was
originally under consideration as a replacement for Francisco V.
PORTELA, the Prensa Latina chief in New York, but it was finally
decided to leave PORTELA here as there were advantages to his being
à U.S. citizen.

Source also mentioned that one "AGEO" (a war name; real name not
known to Source) was under consideration for assignment here. Source
said that "AGEO", was a member of the Cuban Delegation to the 22nd
UN General Assembly in 1967 (date possibly not correct). This "AGEO"
was in charge of the purge within MINREX in 1967 which resulted in
the ouster of some 300 persons regarded as homosexuals, counter-
revolutionaries, or incompetents.

NDA-4841
76 Mar 70
14-00000
SECRET
(men Filled 10)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2. RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

ANALY