104-10109-10320 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

22 APR 71 PRIORITY
S 149

TO KDQS

FROM SAC EFO

SUSJ SUPPORT TO PEREST SEAL - LINDERMAN KEY
(LIAR'S LIE) #219 000 FD/
ATTENTION: MR. ENCE

C/to had handle/recivid/to
on 22 APR 71 it is inthandle
re: Liatrs Lair/platting of comp-

1. ABOUT 0830 ARS ON 22 APR 71, MR. WILLIAM LOOMER, SENIOR VP
BANK OF PERKINE AND A CLEARED AND SETTING CONTACT OF THIS AGENCY FOR
MANY YRS, RPTD A LONG DISTANCE PHONE CALL FROM LES WHITAKER, ASSOCIATE
OF JACK ANDERSON. WHITAKER INQUIRED AS TO LOOMER'S ASSOCIATION WITH
THIS AGENCY AND RECENT ALLEGED ACTIVITIES OF AGENCY AT LIAR'S LAIR IN
OF LINDERMAN KEY, LOCATED ABOUT EIGHT MILES SE OF HOMESTEAD AFF
ACROSS DISCAYNEY KEY.

2. LOOMER DEINED KNOWLEDGE OF AND ASSOCIATION WITH THIS AGENCY.
ARPTD HE IS OFFICER IS COMP WHICH LEASED LIAR'S LAIR FROM UNIV OF
BISHI SEVERAL YRS AGO. (THIS IS TRUTH AND NEITHER SITE FOR COMP
HAS PRESENT ASSOCIATION WITH THIS AGENCY. HE ALSO RPTD THAT ONLY
ACTIVITY THERE IS CORP FORK FORCE BUILDING AN OLD PIER DURING LAST
WEEKEND.

3. LOOMER SPECULATES THAT WHITAKER MAY HAVE OBTAINED HIS INFO
FROM STATE COMP ACDE. ALSO, SOMEONE WITH PAST KNOWLEDGE OF AGENCY

(CONTINUED)

PAGE TWO OF NC 149 #219 000

ACTIVITIES AT LIAR'S LAIR MAY HAVE OBSERVED THE FORK FORCE OVER
THE PAST WEEKEND AND FALSELY ASSOCIATED ACTIVITY WITH THIS
AGENCY. MFO FEELS ANDERSON APRIL OF AGENCY'S PAST INTEREST IN
KEY THROUGH DISCLOSURES OF CAPT BRAD AYERS.

4. THIS INFO PASSED TO VENOM. SUGGEST HDQS PASS TO EN.

PRIORITY

END MAL THANKS
END JES YA
