1104-10077-10153

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ADDRESSEL CABLE SEL BELOW
MAR 11, 1963 562

DEFERRED CEN
A

SASO
ALL
ATHE O
WL
OTHERS
CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, E

POUCH FRAN 9, BONN 5, BRLN S, MUNI S
65387

MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE
EULEN ZRPRIMA
99

PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC
OSLO MADR

CABLE SEC: (PLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)
99

FRAN FROB BONN HAMB PRLN MUNI VIE ATHE

BIΩΝ GNVA CAIR BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP

MEAIURID SAGO KONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA 19

QUIT GUAT SNTO MELS TOEY HONG WAVE CHARC

HELS LISB MILA OTTA TRIE
99

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy Files

14-00000

INDIA INDEX
SECRET
ROUTING

4
FILE IN CS FILE NO
5
6
29 Nov 63 22 212
TO CABER SROERTARTAT

FROM DIRECTOR
SIG CEN
CONF: SAS 8
TOUTOUTENE

INFO: DOP, NEVR
65387A

INFO
CITE CIR
PLEASE RELAY DIR 85387 TO (NEW DELHI) POR INFORMATION.
(2-22)

END OP MESSAGE

COORDINATING DESIGERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICERS
4/
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IK DOween

14-00000
SECRET
CLOTHIN STATIONS AND BASES
CR 200-120-47
22 Now 63 17 032

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
INFO

THAT ESSEE CABLE INFO
CITE DIR 00001
EULEN ZAPRIMA

DIR 22218

RECENTLY CONCLUDED EOS REVIEW OF ZEPRIMA PROGRAM, SEOWS
2
EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND
CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGE WARRANTED. MAIN REASON
POR KUDARK FAILURE IS THAT CUEAN TECNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM
2
FICEL'S
DAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE THE JEASURED AGAINSTYORIGINAL
OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECES FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE TEOUCH CUR
FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY
CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRI
ADOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUFARK
SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECES INTO THE
VARIOUS HIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY THO EAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT
APPROVAL FROM HA VÀ
CUEAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS
DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC
INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF BOSTILE ACEITS

CONT...

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy tea

14-00000
SECRET
" FILE IN CS FILE NO.
ROUTING

5
6

FROM: DIRECTOR
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

INFO
PAGE TWO
CITE DIR 85387

TO AGEABLE LOSS OF INTEREST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO
LIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN
PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES. TO
APPLICATIONS, LONG DELAY IN GETTING WORD BACK FROU HAVANA AND
SILALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY FIRED, LONG TIME LAC BETWEEN
INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM HAVA, WHICH RUNS
SIX TO WINE MONTHS, EAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS WEO WERE
INITIALLY EAGER CUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER
JOBS.

3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT FORTHWEILE

TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZPPRIXA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION
-FISE STRESS
INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY
WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS
TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR
NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CULANS WILL CONTINUE
TO HIRE NEEDED TECHS ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR
TO ZEPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URGED TO CONTINUE BE
ALERT FOR SUCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT TE IN SANGS HAFNER
AS ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.

COORDINATING OFFICERS
CONT...,,

SECRET
AUTHENTICAIN
OFFER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

Capryc

14-00000
PAGE
3
INFO
CITE DIR 85387
THIS CONIECTION NOTE THAT LOST PERUIEN CFFICIALS RESPONSIDLE
CADCADITING TECES TEED TO RELY EAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF
PPROVEL OF OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY
LACKING THIS THEY MAY CITER IGNORE TIES APPLICATION
OF REJECT IT.

2
RESPONSE OF HOST STATIONS IX PLEIEITING PE CAS
BEEN HOST GRATIFTING, WE-ROVIDED CJEANS WITH GOOD LEER HIGHLY
CUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS TICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED
UMABLE OR UNWILLING TO АССЕРТ. KUMARK HAS MADE A РЕСТАЕ
EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT
ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS ISLY REFLECTION CULAR CONFUSION
AND INEPTITUDE RITH RESULTANT FAILO
DISCONTINUL USE ZAPELLAS
CES COMMEN
PLEASING OFFICER
200-120
END OF LESSAGE

seen in GIA
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE RONG CHACE IS PROHIBITED.
Cour...

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
12 62
ROUTING
SECRET
INCLX
4
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
5
6
TO
FROIA DIRECTOR
DEFERRED
CONE
ROUTINE
INFO
10
PAGEFOUR
CITE DIR 85387
SAS/EOB

SAS/NOB
W3/5

CRC Locis
C/FE

WI
ILLIAM D. RYAN
CAVE

DESEOID FITZGERALD
C/EAS

RELEASING OFFICER
COGRDINATING OFFICERS
UTHENTICATINS
officee
4/D/ SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY MED
