14-00000
104-10131-10016 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division

ATTENTION : Mr. Clayton Kallander
    226 Westout Building

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
    and Operational Support)

SUBJECT : SWENSON, Harold F.
    #73086

1. There is attached hereto TFW/Support memorandum dated 5
November 1962 requesting alias documentation for the subject in
his registered alias.

2. Please note that a backstopped driver's license has been
requested for the Subject. The Office of Security will, therefore,
initiate action to procure a backstopped alias New York State
Driver's License. Please issue the remaining requested documen-
tation directly to TFW/Support.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

DDS/IOS   Victor R. White
ADDS/IOS

ASST/IOS Attachment:
  As Indicated
C/ID

C/OSD cc: TFW/Security

CI/SED KUHNKE/efb
6 November 1962
PENDING
AHS
3
3
FILES

5 November 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Technical Services Division
Authentication Branch)

THRU : OS/SD/2, Mr. Kuhnke

SUBJECT : Request for Alias Documentation
  Harold F. SWENSON (T)

1. Attached for your information is a completed form D-104
requesting-documentation for Subject in his registered alias,
Harold Francis SAFLEY.

2. Please handle this request on an expeditious basis since
it will be necessary for Mr. SWENSON to make some contacts in the
near future.

3. Refer any inquiries to George A. LADNER, Jr., ext. 6055.

HOWARD J. PRESTON
Chief, TFW/Support

Attachment:
Form D-104

CC: OS/SD/2

DOCUMENT REQUEST FORM

Case No: Requestor: Date Due:

True Name: Harold F. Swenson Extension:

Alias (including middle name): Harold Francis SAFLEY

Address to be used: Washington, D. C.

Height: 6'0" Weight: 185 Hair: Black

Blood Type:

Wears glasses? No Married: Yes Occupation: Legend: industrial relations

Birth date: 28 April 1915 Place: New York, N. Y.

Countries where documentation will be used: U. S. and possibly Latin America

DATA FOR BIRTH CERTIFICATE, AS OF TIME OF BIRTH

Father's name: Mother's maiden name:

POB: POB:

Age: Age:

Occupation: Occupation:

Residence: Doctor's name:

Number of children born to parents prior to this birth: 1

Documentation requested: Backstopped D. C. driver's license or backstopped New York State
driver's license is more quickly obtainable.

Security clearance: Pocket litter to support legend of an Industrial Relations man.

"*Can use 251 E. 51st St., New York City as address - this is
home of Subject's uncle."

1. Has New Jersey Driver's license #59586-31566-04155 -
Axpiration Date - October 1965

2. Former D. C. Permit 1941947 - now expired

Geo bodun called & requested
alias CIA credentals for
SWENSON.

Swenson is a Ho
said Linenser of of
smooth guy to lo
Amself O.K.

Asked for
recheck of
Wants to try
contact
tricke
Waitsion
w/ R&B
on Thursday
