14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air Pouch 

DISPATCH NO. -5760
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City
DATE: 24 December 57

ROM: Chief, WD

GENERAL - Merational
SUBJECT
SPECIFIC - Raymond H. CEREDE

ACTION RETETIDI Sign and Return Contract Extension

Attached are original and two copies of an extension of Subject's
contract to be signed and witnessed and returned to leasquatters.
19 December 1967

Attachment
3, as stated above

Distribution:
3- Mexico City, w/atts.
1-WH/Mailroom
1- Wii/III/Chrono
1 - RI
1- Subject

Releasing door:
J. C. KING, CHIEF, WHP

(Coordinating officer)
SECRET
CLASSICATION.

Authen boating disc
R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III

---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
CIA INTERNAL
USE CHLY

SUBJECT: Opernall

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION
Room 301 1016 16th St.

NO
CATE 10 December 1957
TO (Officer designotion, rocs number, ond
building)

DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whicie
INITIALS to whom. Drow s line across colume aber nach comment)

1. FI/OPS/Projects
1709 L Bldg.
2.
WH Division
1405 Barton Hall
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

RECD IWOD
1957 The original of this contract was
prepared in headquarters and
forwarded to the field for their
execution and retention. This
amendment should follow the same
procedure. Please let CPD know
when subject has signed his
extension so a copy of this docu-
ment can be forwarded to Finance
Division for their records.

FORM
1 DEC 56 610 SEDITIONGUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY
---

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA
(Specity Ar or Sea Pouch)

DISPATCH NO. 26-5626

SEGRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO chief of Station, Mexico City

DATE DEC 3 196

FROM Chief, AHD

GENERAL Operational
SUBJECT 
SPECIFIC - Raymond H. GE

1. Effective 1 October 1957, the contract (as tested) for Subject,
effective 1 october 1955, is extended for a period of two (2)
years.

2. All other terms and conditions of the contract (avented) romain
in full force and effect.

26 November 1957

Distribution:
3- Mexico City
1-Wh/allre
1-WH/III
1- Subject
1- RI

WH/11/ex:
Chief, AND
FORM NO. 51-29
1949

CATE
CLASSFICATION
