13-00000

SECRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:	Bruce L. Solie
	Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT:	NAGELL, Richard Case
	#264 170

1.	This memorandum identifies those Office of Security
files which were reviewed by House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA) staff members in conjunction with the
HSCA's investigation into the deaths of President John F.
Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

2.	Under procedures established with the HSCA, certain
items of information were not reviewed by HSCA staff members.
These items were placed in envelopes, sealed, appropriately
identified, and put back into the security file prior to
HSCA review. Office of Security personnel reviewing these
files should maintain the integrity of each envelope below
so that interested parties may know what was and was not
reviewed by HSCA staff members.

3.	In some instances, the above files contain material
marked in the lower right-hand corner with a green circular
dot. This mark should alert Office of Security personnel to
the fact that this material was located and placed in the
file at the time of the HSCA review and was seen by an HSCA
staffer(s). This material should not be removed from the
file.

4.	Attached to this memorandum is a review sheet which
identifies the name of the HSCA reviewer(s) and the date of
his review.

5.	Questions regarding the above procedure and/or the
HSCA's review should be directed to the Security Analysis
Group.

REVIEWED BY FBVJFK TASK FORCE
9/7/98 dd

VSCLEROE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL	Bruce L. Solie

Attachment
SECRET

13-00000

File
SAME Birthday

KRAMER JOE

KRAMER, JOE
/YM /B 05A UG 30	OR 69 M341008
/D. LST 18JUN69 P23 DEFECTORS MACHINE LST
DEFECTORS FILE
17-2319006

13-00000

SEGRET

EXTRACT

U.S. DEFECTOR MACHINE LISTING - JULY 1973
RICHARD CASE NAGELL

SEGRET

13-00000
SECRET

R	00000 A 137202	201-0746537

R	00400 R NAGELL	RICHARD	CASE

S	00000	GREENWICH	05 AUG 30
USA/NEW YORK

R 463401 A	SOB

M 463401 A	AT ATTEMPTED SUICIDE SEVERAL TIMES	ABROAD
69402 A		EXACT

M 69403 A

R 43401 B NAGELL	RICHARD	CASE

R 51A01 B KRAMER	JOE	T	A
454401 B CRAMER	JOE	V	A
59401 B NOLAN	ROBERT	C	Y
62401 B CRANE	JOE	A
48401 C	GREENWICH	J-543069	05 AUG 30	P
USA/NEW YORK	NEW YORK	24 MAY 68
M 43401 D		115 891
M 59401 X	EL-DISMISSED FROM JOR JUN 62
M 62401 E	E4 FLUENT	JAPANESE
48A01 G	PRIVATE SN 12

M 48401 X	G1 ENLISTED AS PRIVATE 48/DISCHARGED AS SERGEANT 51

M 48401 0	G1 TO ACCEPT COMMISSION

48401 H	ARMY USA

48401 N	USA

48401 O STATIONED IN NEW YORK/NEW JERSEY AND OVERSEAS	48	51
M 48401 U AGENCY	201 SUMMARY	20 MAR 69
51401 G CAPTAIN SN 2028346
51401 H ARMY USA

M 51A01 N USA/NEW JERSEY	FT DIX

M 51001 Q HONORABLY DISCHARGED OCT 59
M 511 U AGENCY		201-SUMMARY	20 MAR 69
M 51401 X GRANTED TOP SECRET CLEARANCE 22 SEP 55/ASSIGNED CIC	59
54401 L L4 FACIAL SCARS FROM PLANE CRASH	HEAD
M 54101 M WALTER REED HOSPITAL	NOV 54	APR 55
M 54001 N USA/DISTRICT	WASHINGTON
M 54401 O HERE FOR TREATMENT OF INJURIES NOV 54-APR 55

M 54401 O FBI	DBA-63177	04 FEB 64

M 54401 X SOLE SURVIVOR AIRPLANE CRASH 28 NOV 54 SUFFERED
M 54401 Z XL FACIAL DISFIGUREMENT/GIVEN PSYCHIATRIC EXAMS

M 59A01 G SPECIAL INVESTIGATOR.

M 59401 H ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL/DEPARTMENT OF

M 59401 M LEEWARD AVENUE	4037

M 59401 N USA/CALIFORNIA	LOS ANGELES	59	62

M 59401 Q RESIDENCE	20 MAR 69
M 59401 U AGENCY	201 SUMMARY
62401 M EMBASSY USA

62401 N MEXI	MEXICO CITY	UNK

M 62401 O VISITED EMRASSY/VOLUNTEERED INFORMATION

62401 FBI	034-24397	02 OCT 62

M 63A01 M EL PASO COUNTY JAIL

M 63401 N USA/TEXAS	EL PASO	63	UNK

M 63401 O ARRESTED ATTEMPTING TO ROB BANK	20 MAR 69
201-SUMMARY

M 63401 U AGENCY

M 63401 Z CHARACTERIZED AS MENTALLY UNSTABLE

M 68401 M CONSULATE USA

M 68401 N SUIS	ZURICH	68	UNK

463401 O VISITED CONSULATE 4 AND 5 JUNE

M 68401 AGENCY	ZU21-1331	06 JUN 68

R 463401 X APPEARED PSYCHOTIC/POSSIBLY DANGEROUS

M 68402 N EGER	68	UNK

M 68402 0 HELD HERE 4 MONTHS

M 69402 FBI	080-43667	18 FEB 69

M 68402 X TAKEN OFF TRAIN GOING TO W BERLIN BY E GERMANS JULY 68

M 68402 Z X1 MADE REMARKS EAST GERMANS CONSIDERED DEROGATORY

M 69401 M CONSULATE USA

M 69401 N SUIS	ZURICH	69	UNK
469401 O VISITED MAR 7 FOR ASSISTANCE/THREATENED EXPOSE US GOVT

M 69401 U AGENCY	ZURI-1629	17 MAR 69

M 69401 X CLAIMED WORKING FOR US GOVT ON SECRET MISSION

M 69401 Z X1 TO MEET JAPANESE IN GENEVA

M 69402 M CONSULATE. USA

M 69402 N SPAN	BARCELONA	69	UNK

469402 O HERE MAR 10/THREATENED EXPOSE US GOVT

M 69402 U AGENCY	7191-1629	17 MAR 69

469A03 N USA/NEW YORK?	NEW YORK	69	UNK

M 69403 Q PLACED NOTICE IN UNDERGROUND NEWSPAPER AUG 69
23975

R M 69403 U STATE	DST-18786	05 SEP 69
*******************************************
******************
**************

13-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DATE
REPLY REQUESTED
27 March 1969
SPEED LETTER
LETTER NO.

YES NO

TO:	Mr. Paul Gaynor, C/OS/SRS

FROM:	N. Scott Miler, CI/SIG

ATTN:

The attached telegram from American Embassy, Madrid, may
not have come to your attention. It may be of some significance
in connection with information about a Richard Case NAGELL with
akas your office sent to the FBI 7 April 1964 (Solie originated)
and Richard FECTEAU.

Scenthuler
REPLY	DATE	SIGNATURE

to muydy
See Buck-Stip
what went FBI P

To Tighe 4/1/69
Mrs Hall Juls

Tighe no further act 4 20ers on
Mm Tighe. For your info
From on

RETURN TO ORIGINATOR
FORM
JUL 1831

SECRET
SIGNATURE

13-0000

SUBJECT: NAGELL, Richard Case	SECRET

18 January 1968

ALLEGATION:	CIA CONNECTION:

Richard Case NAGELL, "a 	None; although, Subject was of
highly decorated infantry	interest to OS in 1964 and early
Captain in the Korean War", 	1965 because of information
alleges that he became a 	furnished to the Agency by the
CIA agent. He said he	FBI that he had in his possession
fired the gun in the bank at	the names of six CIA employees
El Paso, Texas because he	at the time of his arrest for bank
wanted to be in custody when	robbery at El Paso, Texas on 20
the assassination of	September 1963.
President KENNEDY took
place. NAGELL charged
that "the FBI illegally
seized from him evidence
crucial to his defense,
such as notebooks containing
the names of certain CIA
employees, photographs, two
Mexican tourist cards (one
in the name of Joseph KRAMER,
the other in the name of
Albert HIDEL) and receipts for
registered mail, including the one
for the letter sent HOOVER
warning of the assassination.
NAGELL daimed he was in-
structed to "arrow" the
patsy, that is kill him
(OSWALD) after the assassi-
nation. He contended he
got cold feet and this was
his reason for the attempted
bank robbery, he would rather
be arrested than commit
murder and treason. The
article alleges that while it
was suggested in court that
an airplane crash NAGELL
survived mentally affected him,
he was given intelligence
training after the crash.
Also, NAGELL complains he has
been salted away because of
what he knows.

Excluded Automatic
downgrading and
declassification

13-00000

SOURCE: SECRET

1968 RAMPARTS
Article by William
W. TURNER

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject became of interest to the Office of Security in March 1964
when the FBI informed the Agency that Subject had in his possession at
the time of his arest for bank robbery at El Paso, Texas on 20 September
1963 the name of Richard FECTEAU (an individual by this name was captured
by the Chinese Communists and is now in prison in China) and of six Agency
employees. Research failed to reveal any reason why NAGELL had these
names in his possession. It was concluded that while NAGELL is unquestionably
unbalanced, his story of being involved in espionage is not fully contradicted
by evidence. He could have been contacted by a Soviet agent while in Washington,
D. C. in December 1962 or while he was in Mexico City in September and October
1962. His file contains mostly FBI reports dated 1962 and 1964 and in these
are documented his history of mental instability and physical complaints
stemming from the plam crash. Attached is a chronology dated 3 March 1965
made from the information contained in the FBI reports. At the time this
security research was conducted, it was recommended that NAGELL be personally
interviewed by a representative of OS in the hope that NAGELL might reveal
how he came into the possession/ these names but no further action is indicated
in his file and this interview was not undertaken.

DETAILS:

Subject's file reflects no Agency interest in him prior to March 1964
when the names of CIA employees were found in his possession when arrested
for bank robbery.

The RAMPARTS claim that he received intelligence training after the plane
crash is true. The crash occurred 28 November 1954 and he graduated from
Army Intelligence School, Ft. Holabird, Maryland on 15 August 1955. Не
served in Korea and Japan as a member of the U. S. Army Counterintelligence
Corps, terminating about 1958. A Lt. Col. Ned W. GLENN who served with
NAGELL personally in Korea advised that NAGELL was not stable mentally and
that this instability was probably due to brain damage suffered in the airplane
crash.

The RAMPARTS article's claim that NAGELL said he fired the gun in the
bank at El Paso, Texas because he wanted to be in custody when the assassination
took place is not completely in conflict with a statement NAGELL made on
1 January 1964 which was, however, after the assassination. (see page 4 of
chronology)

The RAMPARTS article's allegation that the FBI took from NAGELL a note-
book containing the names of CIA employees is true.

NAGELL's complaint that he was "salted away" is open to speculation. A
ten year prison sentence does appear harsh, considering the documented brain

13-00000

SECRET

damage he suffered in the B-25 plane crash while he was in the U. S.
Army.

13-00000

SEGRET
Richard Case NAGELL

Chronological Record of Activities

5 Aug 1948:	Entered Army (18 years old)
	"Brilliant Korean War Record"
	"Many Campaign Awards"

28 Nov 1954:	Sole survivor of plane crash. Suffered facial disfigure-
	ment; given psychiatric exam.

15 Aug 1955:	Graduated from Army Intelligence School, Ft. Holabire
	Maryland. Served as advisor to ROK Army in Korea.
	Concerned with intelligence activities; served as a mer
	of U.S. Army Counterintelligence Corps in Japan, Sendi
	and Tokyo, terminating about 1958.

	A Lt. Col. Ned W. GLENN, Deputy G-2, U.S. Navy,
	Japan, advised on 24 March 1964 that he had served
	personally in Korea with NAGELL. GLENN advised
	that NAGELL was not stable mentally and that this in-
	stability was probably due to damage to brain tissues
	suffered in an airplane crash during the Korean War.

29 Oct 1959:	Honorable Discharge - Captain, U.S. Army

14 Dec 1959:	Employed by Department of Alcoholic Beverage Contro
	of State of California as a special investigator.

8 June 1962:	Suspended by ABC, State of California

27 June 1962:	Dismissed by ABC

16 July 1962: Shot in chest "while making a meet" between Malibu and
	Oxnard. Refused to identify assailants or furnish infor-
	mation to police, subsequently, filed Civil Rights com-
	plaint against police. Withdrew request for hearing so
	he could get money from state of California consisting of
	retirement contributions and accumulated leave.

17 Aug 1962:	Issued tourist card at Los Angeles, California.
24 Aug 1962:	Entered Mexico through Ciudad, Juarez.

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

13-00000

28 Sept 1962:	Appeared voluntarily at American Embassy, Mexico City,
	tense, nervous, agitated and antagonistic.
	Inter alia-stated he had been approached in Mexico
	City for recruiting, refused to say by whom on behalf of
	what country. Stated that one job of this sont would be
	in New York. He volunteered that he fully realized that
	what he was saying could be used against him in any
	court or prosecution. He stated that he was "bitter,
	disgusted, disillusioned and disaffected". Stated he knew
	the full significance of the term disaffected. He stated
	that if he did go to some other country, it would cost the
	United States millions. He stated that he was "through
	being a good citizen" and thought that he had gotten a
	"dirty deal all around."

1 Oct 1962:	Again appeared at American Embassy, Mexico City,
	wanting to know what had been done in regard to getting
	the state of California to pay him the money due him.
	Was sent to protection section. Asked what section of
	Embassy he should contact to renounce his United States
	citizenship. Was advised by collection section that they
	could not intercede for him in collecting money from
	state of California. Appeared in passport and citizenship
	section and asked what the penalty would be for going to
	an Iron Curtain country and what effect it would have on
	his citizenship. Was advised that such action would be
	violation of federal law.

28 Oct 1962:	Left-Mexico City, Mexico.
16 Nov 1962:	Advised FBI in New York City he wanted to expose
	Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control in California.
15 Dec 1962:	Advised FBI in Jacksonville, Florida, that he had been
	approached shortly before in Washington, D.C., by
	individual believed to be working for Soviets. NAGELL
	at this time was noted to be in an inebriated condition -
	vague in answering questions.

20 Dec 1962:22 Jan 1963: NAGELL at Bay Pines, Florida VA Hospital.
	Condition diagnosed as "chronic brain syndrome associated
	with brain trauma with behavioral reaction characterized
	by passive aggressive and paranoid features".

-2-
SECRET

13-00000

24 Jan 1963:	Asked FBI in Miami if his Cuban or Russian sources
	gave him a pistol with silencer and microfilm if he
	would be permitted to return same to his contact so
	he could be of further use to U.S. Government. He
	stated that in August or September 1962 he met a man
	from Maryland in Mexico City who introduced him to
	individuals whom he believed may have been Soviet Agent.

19 April 1963:	Advised FBI in Los Angeles, California, that he had
	taken his former wife to court for failure to comply with
	court order giving NAGELL visitation rights with children.

4 June 1963:	NAGELL appeared at the Out Patient Clinic and was re-
	ferred to the Neurological Clinic for treatment. His
	condition was diagnosed as'depression, tearful, nervous,
	rigid". Would only utter words "Got to see my kids".

20 Sept 1963:	NAGELL arrested in El Paso, Texas, on charge of at-
	tempting to rob State National Bank. Slashed wrist night
	of 9/20/63. NAGELL consistently denied he had tried
	to rob the bank; stated that the fact that he fired two shots
	in the ceiling proved he had not been trying to hit anyone.
	He stated that he was certain that "all of my problems have
	been solved for a long time, and now I won't have to go to
	Cuba!".
	A notebook which the Subject had on his person when ar-
	rested made reference to Fair Play for Cuba Committee,
	the names of purported CIA agents and other information.
	Cell mate in jail reported that NAGELL disclosed to him
	that NAGELL, during confused period after discharge,
	decided everything against him in Los Angeles and made
	arrangements with Communist Party in Los Angeles to
	pick up visa and passport from contact in El Paso and
	eventually end up in Czechoslovakia. NAGELL reportedly
	attempted suicide three times enroute to El Passo but
	lost nerve.

(Noteworthy that State Department records reflect issuance
of Passport to NAGELL on 7 August 1962 at Los Angeles,
California, and that on 9 July 1963 NAGELL signed affi-
davit that his passport had been lost or stolen. He was
issued a new passport on 6 August 1963.)

-3-
SECRET

13-00000

4 Nov 1963:	El Paso Herald-Post article states that NAGELL told
	U.S. District Court that he did not attempt to hold up
	the bank. "I had a motive for doing what I did!" NAGELL
	told Judge, "but my motive was not to hold up the bank.
	I do not intend to disclose my motive at this time."

19 Dec 1963:	Subsequent to President's assassination, Subject claimed
	acquaintance with OSWALD and wife. Marina OSWALD
	on 1/18/65 disclaimed any knowledge of NAGELL.

1 Jan 1964:	NAGELL furnished a signed statement:
	"... In September 1962, while I was in Mexico City,a
	representative of a foreign government preposed to me
	that I participate in an act; such act being a criminal
	offense and inimical to the best interest of the United
	States. At that time, I refused such proposal. In May
	1963, another representative of the same foreign govern-
	ment made the same proposal to me. At that time, I
	agreed to such a proposal."
	"In September 1963, I was informed by an American,
	known to me as an Agent of the same foreign government,
	that arrangements for my participation in the aforementioned
	act were completed. At that time, I refused the aforesaid
	proposal.
	Approximately one week later, I was instructed by this
	same person to either participate as previously agreed
	or derrogatory information pertaining to me would be
	disclosed to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. There-
	upon, I agreed to follow the instructions of this person,
	although I did not intend to do so. This existing situation
	actuated my conduct of September 20, 1963, for which I
	was arrested and am presently charged.
	I did not actually attempt to rob any bank. I thought that
	my arrest would provide an immediate, though temporary,
	solution to the problem with which I was confronted.
	I am not guilty as charged.!"

24 Jan 1964:	NAGELL arraigned in connection with indictment for
	bank robbery and was committed for 30 days for the
	purpose of psychiatric examination.

9 June 1964:	Sentenced in U.S. District Court, El Paso, Texas to
	serve 10 years.

17 June 1964:	NAGELL swallowed several sleeping pills while lodged
	at the El Paso County Jail.
SECRET
-4-

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

24 October 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:	NAGELL, Richard C.
	ΑΙΝ 0 264 170

On 23 October 1997, the undersigned met with Mr.
Gary Brennanmen, Historical Review Group, Central
Intelligence Agency and Ms. Kathleen M. Combs, Assassination
Records Review Board.

Ms. Combs reviewed the Office of Personnel
Security's security file of subject.

W. Curtis Chaloner
OPS/CD/IMB

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

1/mc

13-00000
FORM 681G"

NTL NO 6051
REQUESTOR HALL
CNT16051 NAGELL RICHARD CASE

OFFICE SRS
15JAN1968

DOBP.99

NAGELL, RICHARD CASE
/A CRAMER, JOE

JA. KRAMER,JOE
/A CRANE, JOE
ZANOLAN, ROBERT CZB
Z 0933604

CIR1930 ZYM
--NI--I/ND--U/ND-SA-CO

OS 64 M264170

NAGELL, RICHARD C
TMRS

/A NAGELL,MITSUKO/MRS/YFZD FBI 12JUN64 P1 NAGELL, RICHARD CASE EX-SPO
/Z 0933603

-NI--I/ND--U/ND-SA-CO

SERET

13-00000

brought in a rifle to have a telescopic | going to have to go back to Russia to
sight mounted; he produced a repair tag | buy a car" (Report, p. 320).
in that name as confirmation (Report,
p. 315). Garland G. Slack and other

target shooters patronizing the Sports
Drome Rifle Range reported that a man
resembling Oswald had practiced there
as late as November; the man made him-
self obvious, at one time incurring
Slack's displeasure by firing on his tar-
get (Report, pp. 318-319).

An incident at Downtown Lincoln-
Mercury is highly revealing. Immedi-
ately after the assassination, salesman
Albert Guy Bogard reported to the FBI
that a man giving the name Lee Oswald,
who closely resembled the accused as-
sassin, came into the showroom on No-
vember 9. Remarking that in several
weeks he would have the money to make
the purchase, he test-drove an expensive
model on the Stemmons Freeway at 60
to 70 miles an hour. Both Bogard and
another salesman, Oren Brown, wrote
down the name Oswald so that they
would remember him if he called back.
A third salesman, Eugene M. Wilson,
recalled that when the man purporting
to be Oswald was told he would need a
credit rating, he snapped, "Maybe I'm

PROTEST
BUTTONS!

NAPALM MAKES MILLIONAIRES
CAUTION: MILITARY SERVICE MAY
BE HAZARDOUS TO YOUR HEALTH.
"WHAT ME WORRY?" (photo LBJ grinning)

SAVE LIVES NOT FACE "HAD
ENOUGH?" (photo Reagan smiling)..
COME BACK TRUMAN, ALL IS FOR-
GIVEN MY GOD IS ALIVE, SORRY
ABOUT YOURS IS THERE INTELLI-
GENT LIFE ON FARTH? I'cace symbol
• peace dove or wreath"

SNOOPY SNIFFS AEROPLANE GLUE
FLOWER POWER END POVERTY.
GIVE ME $10 WE LOVE YOU, CHARLIE
BROWN KEEP AMERICA GREEN,
PLANT GRASS EVEN I LIKE SEX A
PILL IN TIME SAVES NINE LOVE* •
I'M NO. 3, I DON'T TRY AT ALL. POT
• CLEAN AIR SMELLS FUNNY BAN
THE BRA. CHASTITY IS ITS OWN
PUNISHMENT LSD: FLY UNITED •
ZAP! YOU'RE STERILE
*Button has groovy artwork.

Largest selection in U.S., OVER 500 TITLES
@254 each, 5/$1,200/$25. FREE LIST!

POSTERS too! Rock groups, film stars,
psychedelic, etc. Stamp brings list.

ARIES
Box 666R
Aptos, California 95003

Given a lie detector test by the FBI,
Bogard's responses were those "normally
expected of a person telling the truth."
Nevertheless, the Warren Commission
dismissed the incident by noting that
Oswald supposedly could not operate an
automobile and that on November 9 he
allegedly spent the day drafting a
lengthy letter to the Soviet Embassy. It
evidently never considered the possibility
someone might be impersonating Os-
wald. But Bogard will never identify the
impersonator. He stuck to his story in
news interviews, and subsequently was
beaten to within an inch of his life by an
unknown assailant and arrested by the
Dallas police on seemingly trumped-up
bad check charges. He retreated to his
native Louisiana, where on St. Valen-
tine's Day 1966, he was found dead of
exhaust fumes in his automobile.

The main ingredients of the patsy
theory are wrapped up in a story that has
gradually filtered out of Leavenworth
Penitentiary. The story is that of inmate
Richard Case Nagell, and paradoxically,
the most cogent confirmation for it is the
manner in which he wound up sentenced
to ten years in federal custody.

Nagell was a highly decorated infantry
captain in the Korean War who, he
claims, subsequently became a CIA
agent. It is a matter of record that in
1957 he was seriously injured in a plane
crash in Cambodia, which tends to sup-
port his contention, since Cambodia was
not exactly a tourist playground. On
September 20, 1963, Nagell walked into
a bank in El Paso, Texas, fired a gun into
the ceiling, and then sat outside waiting
to be arrested. He says he staged the
affair because he wanted to be in custody
as an alibi when the assassination took
place. It was a desperate measure, he ad-
mits. But he had sent a registered letter
to J. Edgar Hoover warning him of the
impending assassination, which he says
was then scheduled for the latter part of
September (probably the 26th in Wash-
ington, D.C.), and the letter had gone
unanswered.

There is an incredibly brief FBI inter-
view report stating, in part, that on De-
cember 19, 1963, Nagell advised, "For
the record he would like to say that his
association with OSWALD (meaning
LEE HARVEY OSWALD) was purely
social and that he had met him in Mexico

5 RAMPARTS

13-00000

repor states that when the prisoner was
being led from court on January 24,
1964, he "made wild accusations to news-
paper reporters, accusing the FBI of not
attempting to prevent the assassination
of President Kennedy..." (CD 404).

That the charges may not be so wild is
indicated by the fact that the government
threw the book at Nagell, a first offender
who says he expected to be charged only
with discharging a firearm on govern-
ment-protected property. Since his sen-
tencing, he has been shuttled between
Leavenworth and the federal medical
center (a euphemism for mental institu-
tion) at Springfield, Missouri. While the
government has suggested in court that
his airplane crash mentally affected
Nagell, the fact remains that he was
given intelligence training after the crash.
What Nagell alleges is damning not only
to the FBI, but to the CIA. In brief,
he says that the motive for the assassina-
tion was Kennedy's move in the direction
of a rapprochement with Castro, which
was a rank, betrayal in the eyes of
anti-Castro elements. As he puts it, an
anti-Castro group in New Orleans and
Mexico City, code name Bravo Club,
decided to give Kennedy a "Christmas.
present" to be delivered September 26, a
date that was postponed. A party was
required. Two members of Bravo Club
approached Oswald while he was work-
ing at the Reily coffee firm in New Or-
leans in the summer of 1963, and ap-
pealed to his ego in setting him up as the
patsy. When the "delivery" site was
shifted to Dallas, Bravo Club enlisted
the aid of a Dallas "subsidiary," Delta
Club.

Meanwhile the CIA got wind of the
plans and sent several agents into the
field to ascertain whether they were "for
real." Nagell says he was one of the
agents dispatched. Within a short time,
he claims, he was pulled in. It had been
verified that the plans were authentic,
that "gusanos [anti-Castroites] were
making the watch tick," and that the
sum of the plot was right-wing in nature.
Nagell says that he was instructed to
"arrow" the patsy, that is kill him, after
the assassination. At this point, he con-
tends, he got cold feet and bailed out. "I
would rather be arrested than commit
murder and treason," he declared in a
self-prepared petition for habeas corpus.
In the petition, Nagell asserts that he
used the pseudonyms Robert Nolan and
Joseph Kramer in the U.S. and three

foreign countries under the authorization
of the Defense Intelligence Agency. He
states that the files of the FBI and the
CIA contain information that Oswald
was using the aliases Albert Hidel and
Aleksei Hidel. He charges that the FBI
illegally seized from him evidence crucial
to his defense, such as notebooks con-
taining the names of certain CIA em-
ployees, photographs, two Mexican
tourist cards (one in the name Joseph
Kramer, the other in the name Albert
Hidel), and receipts for registered mail,
including the one for the letter sent
Hoover warning of the assassination.
When Nagell complains he has been
"salted away" because of what he
knows, he just might be making the un-
derstatement of the year.

[THE ELIMINATION OF A PATSY]

DIDN'T KILL ANYBODY... I'm just
a patsy," Oswald shouted to news-
men while in police custody. A
marked patsy, contends Garrison-one
who was not supposed to have lived long
enough to utter his cry of innocence. But
something had misfired, and. Oswald fell
not into the hands of his would-be exe-
cutioners, but into the comparative
safety of the Dallas jail. The denouement
presented a crisis that the conspirators
could solve only by pressing police buff
Jack Ruby into service.

Although the Warren Commission
concluded that Oswald ducked into his
Oak Cliff rooming house to pick up the
.38 revolver, later confiscated from him
in the Texas Theater, it did not explain
why, if he had gone to work at the School
Book Depository that morning intend-
ing to kill the President and escape,
he did not take the revolver with him.
That he made a