14-00000
104-10110-10568- 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 792692
SECRET

Chief, Contact Division 23 Dec 1963
Support Branch CHI-63-1314
Chief, Chicago Field Office

Hargrave Secret Service

1. Al Thompson recently asked me for my opinion
of Hargrave Secret Service, 6 West Randolph Street,
Chicago, insofar cover potential is concerned.
24
2. Chicago Field Office ffles contain ne infor-
mation on the company. The Chicago telephone directory
reflects the company was formed in 1888 and has offices
and/or representatives in the principal cities of the
world. (See attached Redbook ad).
3. Local FBI contacts had no information concern-
ing the company. Albert Johpeon, en ex-FBI man who has
operated a private detective agency in Chicago for years
told me that George R. Hargravevis solè owner and is
the son of the founder. Hr. Johnson described Hargrave
sea big, 250 pound man who has been married five times.
In business, he is the type to put on a big show and is
not averse to putting more men than necessary, on a job
in order to charge his client a higher price and profit
accordingly. Mr. Johnson said that, although Hargrave
advertises offices throughout the world he doubts that
these are any more than investigative correspondent
A casual inquiry put to Richard Cain, Chief
Investigator, Cook County Sheriff's Office, brought forth
the comment that Cain distrusts Hargrave. He said he
knows him personally and does not regard him as a discreet
person.
24
5. In view of the above, Cover may want to reconsider
using Hargrave
Tue's
81732
IN
92

92692.-
R.F.B. Lohmann

KPEL/jak
Attachment
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from avtomatic
declassification
21미
