104-10215-10035
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT J. F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPORT COVER SOLELY
COPIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

UFG

MRSAVE	23 - 1963

CRYPT

ASSET

Source:
Faras. 1-4: 	from
former Panamanian Charge in Habana, ily in Pari
who was approached by
Affairs Commission, workin wi with, on
employee; and it is said that the
Ter-American
quite successful in shipping medicines to Cuba including ship-
nents to prisoners in Cuban Jails.

Faras. 5 and 6: 	on or about 20 September
obtained the information because it was addreened to
Line of Miami, who is related to
who is a very good friend of
ASSET
ASSET
Also attached under cover of this report are the following
items of information of potential interest:

a.	Bulletin No. 2 of the National Medical Station
in the Frente Interna Anti-Comunista f
It is not known how received this information.
It is believed that this/information dates to about
June or July 1962.
ASSET

Attachments:
Mise. Medical Info,
1 - Headquarters R/M & atts. h/w
1- 00/C
1- File

CONT,
CONDISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM
-2-

b.	Copy of a letter signed by Cmdte Rene 	for the
Executive Council of the National Intet of Surger
of the Ministry of Health, dated 6 June addressed to
Regino BOTTI, President of JUCEPLAN roqrosting an
approval for the expenditure of $20,000,10 for the
purchase of raw color film from Czechoslovakia. This
film to be used at the national Univerles and in
Cuban scientific institutions. Received from
about mid-July from an unidentified courepondent.
ASSET

c.	debriefing of Antonio TOLEDO Zetacia (A12 829 419)
who was in the third year at the Medient School, University
of Habana, Report dated 21 August,

d.	Translation of a commentary by Virgilio FERAJO Nunez,
leader of the Cuban medical class Habana on 18 August 
1962. It was submitted in translated form by
on 26 August. Though this appears to be an interesting
commentary there does not appear to be anything new or
startling in the information.
CRYPT
CRYPT

e.	Listing of medical and professional personnel in Habana
which was received through the Diplomatic pouch.
Pouch turned over to for duplication,
provided translations. Envelope had return address
Colegio Teresiano Calle 17 No. 1051 Vedado, Habana.
Addressed to Eduardo ROCO, PO Box 1495. No WAVE traces
ROCO. Source of this information is not known. It is
believed that the names under this attachment should be
indexed for the Field. No indication of meaning of A,C
and B, but believe they stand for A-AP-Communist,
B-Neutraland C- Communist.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COPIO LED DISSEM
201-662237
