14-00000

104-10188-10012
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CI HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: DEFGHAN VOL I
Development Plans

INCLUSIVE DATES: 6. JAN 1965 - 2 OCT 1972
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LAD/DDO APPROVED FOR RELEASE.
POOS: 2534 HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE
RECEIVED | RETURNED
26 MAY 78
5July 78
21 JUL 1973
12/20/78
1/21/78
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
DAN HAROWAY.
D. HARDWAY
HARDWAY
HAROWAY
Lock
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL.
Nom Handung
Hardwary
How
Handinary
THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

3-02
CLA
(3-76)
RETIRED
older!
7-13

14-00000

SECRET
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CI HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: DEFGHAN VOL I
Development Plans

INCLUSIVE DATES: 6. JAN 1965 - 2 OCT 1972
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LAD/DDO.
POOS: 2534
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE
RECEIVED | RETURNED
26 MAY 78
5July 78
21 JUL 1973
12/20/78
1/21/78
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
DAN HAROWAY.
D. HARDWAY
HARDWAY
HAROWAY
Lock
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL.
Nom Handung
Hardwary
How
Hardinary

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

3-02
CLA
(3-76)
RETIRED
older!
7-13

14-00000

Project Renewal Requests
For
LIONION.

1 of 1
E
17-13
older!
RETIDO

14-00000
FORM
2-66
2593

CONFIDENTIAL
NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE
CONFIDENTIAL
(7-13)

14-00000

FROM: (Headquarters component)

SECRET
WHEN FABID IN

1.
TO
10
IP/AN
: (Station/Base)
MEXICO CITY

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12.
SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

FROM: (Division)
VID

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.

ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-
BOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE-
MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES.
ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE, CITE
ANY FILES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-
LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 10 MAY
ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE-
QUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED
IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE-
QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.
SUBJECT
TYPE OF FILE
PROJECT

2.
INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
CODE (FILE NUMBER)
CATEGORY NUMBER
50
6
ISPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMBER
122/1
3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT PROJECTS LIMITED TO 30 SPACES)
KDAFGHAN Development & Plans

ACTION REQUIRED
4.
ANALYSIS ACTION
OPEN FILE
AMEND FILE TITLE
XCLOSE FILE (INDICATE DISPOSITION)
REOPEN
5.
6.
DISPOSITION
RETAIN
IP/ARD
7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY)
8.
DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED
THRU (DATE)
D. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK (LIST ACTION DESK FIRST)
12-0
50

FILES ACTION
N
RESTRICTED
HOLD IN
CS FILES
UNRESTRICTED
10. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)
PREPARE FOLDER AND
SEND TO REQUESTER
CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO
(OFFICER & DESK)
VERIFIED
11. ENDORSEMENT
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK A. or O.
WHEN APPLICABLE
camer
aimer 30

EFFECTIVE DATE
1 March 1973

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
FORM
12-63
812 EDITIONS

12 COORDINATION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK A. or O.
(41
13.
RID APPROVAL
REQUEST APPROVED BY

50
06
122/1

SECRET

38
1-CS COPY

14-00000

KOAFGAN

FORMER CRYPTONYM - LIONION
S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE OF CRYPTONYM CHANGE - 20/04/71

CRYPTONYM CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY - ARMSTRONG COMPONENT - RIDIAN
(90 OR 310 SECTION CHIEF)

CABLE OR DOCUMENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM 10 OF FORM 812) - HMMS-7133

N-O-T-I-C-E

THIS IS AN RID NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE

TITLE CRYPTONYM CAUSED BY COMPROMISE. IT
IS TO BE PLACED IN THE FILE INDICATED AND

TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICIAL
CS RECORD.

S-E-C-R-E-T FILE IN 050-006-122/01

14-00000

DISPATCH
TO
Chief of Station, Mexico City
INFO.
FROM
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT
Termination of Project KDAFGHAN
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
PROCESSING ACTION
MASKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
ICAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

The KDAFGHAN Project was officially terminated on 22 September
1972. The reason for termination was VWBLANKET contamination.

Distribution: 2-COS, Mexico City
CROSS REFERENCE TO
FORM
53

Edward K. LAUBOCKER

CS COPY

E2. IMPDET
CL BY: 055272

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OFFICE.
HMMW-19157
DATE
2 OCT 1972
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
OFFICER
ORIGINATING
TYPIST
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/1
md (27 Sept 72)
OFFICE SYMBOL
WH/1 Perry Smart
DATE
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME
EXT.
6954

AN
AB
IN
WH/FI 27 Sept 7
WH/Plans

RELEASING
OFFICE SYMBOL
C/WH/1
John Murray
DATE
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
MFG. 11.69

DISPATCH

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT : Termination of Project KDAFGHAN

SECRET

20 September 1972

1. Project KDAFGHAN, approved for FY 72 and FY 73 in the
amount of $11,950 each year, covered Mexico City Station's
observation post targetted against the Cuban Embassy and
Consulate in Mexico. OP operators KDAFGHAN-1 and his depen-
dent mother KDAFGHAN-2, Cuban exiles resident in Mexico since
1960, were the only human assets in the project.

2. As a result of the JMYAK damage assessment and other
security considerations it was decided that the project should
be terminated and the agents resettled in another country.
DIRECTOR 285255 amended the project for FY 72 to a total of
$20,950 to provide for the termination and resettlement of the
agents. The agents were terminated in August 72 and are now
being resettled in Spain. DIRECTOR 300167 concurred in
terminating the project as of 31 August 72.

3. In view of the developments in paragraph 2, above,
WH/FI recommends approval of this termination request.

Robert D. Wiecha
C/WH/FI

14-00000

SECRET

PROJECT ACTION

TYPE OF ACTION X
NEW PROJECT
APPROVAL
AMENDMENT
DIVISION
Western Hemisphere

FIELD STATION
NO. Mexico.

RENEWAL BRANCH KH/1
FY 19 DESK
DATE
EXTENSION John Davis 25 Aug 72
ROOM NO. BUILDING TEL. BLACK
TERMINATION
XX 3E04 Hqs 9424 6924

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

TYPED NAME (and signature) DATES
IN OUT
MEMO
ATTACHED

CAH/1 John C. Murray 22
CAM/COG Lawrence Sternfield Orville Bally B을
C/MH/B&E John T. Boeck. Borck
C/MH/SS / Richard B. Wright Reage
CANH/EL Robert D. Wiecha Amecha
C/WH/Plans. John. Wilson.
72
31 AV6.72
1537172
✓
21 SEP 1972
Nikon

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
(Type in Organizational Element and Name Below Only DATES
When Concurrence Obtained by Originating Element.)
MEMO
ATTACHED
IN OUT YES NO

APPROVAL

PERIOD AMT THIS ACTION FY TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
FROM TO
19 3
S
19
SIGNATURE DATE
7 2
. 22/8/7
APPROVING AUTHORITY
C/WHD
FORM
USE PREVIOUS
5-69
848TIONS

SECRET

X
(5)

14-00000

SECRET

25 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT : Project KDAFGHAN Termination

1. A request for termination action is contained in
paragraph four, herein.

2. Project KDAFGHAN is a support project which provides
the Mexico City Station with fixed photographic and physical
surveillance of the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in Mexico City.
The objectives of the project are to furnish photographic cov-
erage of the Cuban installation during daylight hours, to
assist the Station in compiling dossiers on officials of the
installation, and to fulfill various requirements in support
of other Station Cuban operations. The KDAFGHAN project en-
compasses two assets, KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2, who have been
associated with the project since 1962.

3. While this project may be of some value to the FBI
(FBI compares KDAFGHAN photographs with the photographs of
known leaders of extremist groups in the U.S. as well as with
photographs of persons who are subjects of identification
orders prepared on badly wanted fugitives in the U.S.), it is
of little value, as presently constituted, to Mexico City
Station. There are other means of obtaining photographs of
PCS and TDY Cuban personnel.

4. In early 1972 the Station mounted a thorough CI review
of all Cuban operations in an attempt to improve their overall
security. Although KDAFGHAN-1 passed the SGSWIRL with no
apparent deception, his Cuban exile status, the long period
of time he has been operating his OP site in close proximity
to the Cuban Embassy, and the potential (perhaps immediate)
danger presented by his and KDAFGHAN-2's Cuban relatives made

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY 055272
WN-SISM

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
- 2 -

it clear that the agents should be terminated. In view of the
aforementioned, as well as security considerations in the JMYAK
case, wi/l requests approval to terminate this project effec-
tive 31 July 1972. In order to meet termination commitments,
project KDAFGHAN was amended on 30 June 1972 by DIRECTOR 285255
in the amount of $9,000, increasing the project's authorization
from $11,950 to $20,950 for FY 1972. KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2
were terminated on 1 August 1972. There were no security inci-
dents during the termination.

John C. Murray
C/WH/1

SECRET

1400000

Murray:md
1 1972
MATICS

CIA

SECRET
2
NO INDCLA
RETURN TO
DRANCH
FILE
FILE IN CO FILE NO

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR
IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY 285255
FAT PLJIYAK

REF: MENICO CITY 20301 (IN 649510)
:
1. IN ORDER PROVIDE FOR COSTS OF AGENT TERMINATIONS

FOLLOWING PROJECTS ARE AMENDED FOR FY 72:

A.. KOTUCK $8,451 (NEW TOTAL 3 48,451)

B. KDULSTER 10,500 (NEW TOTAL 20,350)

C. KDADORN 7, 136 (NEW TOTAL 22,856)

✓ KDAFGHAN 9,900 (NEW TOTAL 20, 950)

E, KDFACTOR 9.844 (NEW TOTAL 28,846)

F. KDACROBAT 7,728 (NEW TOTAL 44, 197)

G. KDVAULT 6,296 (NEW TOTAL 15,420)

H. KDCALVERT 80,950 (NEW TOTAL, 160, 950)

L KULADDER 1,940 (NEW TOTAL 17,552)

J. KDABSCOND 3,150 (NEW TOTAL 24,785)

V K. DADAGE 21,354 (NEW TOTAL 72,921)
(CONTINUED)

COSPATING COPY NO.

SECRET

1400000

MESSAGE FORM
TAL COPIA
WROUTING

SECRE

TRANST LAT DISSEMINATION
☐ NO INGE
PILE in 0 MB
☐ RETURN
BRANCH
Omion
☐ FILE RID

CITE DIFELCO 28635
FAGE 2

L. KDRAΤΙ. 2,400 (NEW TOTAL. 10, 4000

M. KOPACIFY 1,800 (NEW TOTAL 7,800)

N. KDSALLEM 8,800 (NEW TOTAL 31,200)

2. FILE: 50-6-128/1, 50-8-89/1, 50-6-80/1, 50-6-122/1, 50-6-74/4
50-6-114/1, 50-6-58/1, 50-6-72/1, 50-6-131/1, 50-125-27/1, 50-6-144/1,

50-6-126,1, 50-6-110/1, 50-6-38/1
人 EX-2 APDIR WN-S

END OF MESSAGS
CAVA

RELEASING OFFICER
WH/SS
WH/B&Fath

C/MPS/BG5Hi
C

COORDINATING OFFICERS

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD
SECRET

AUTHENTICATO
5

14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSMATAN
SECRET
TO
Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM
SUBJECT
Chief, Festern Hemisphere Division
Project Routin naeval 1974 and FY 1973
ACTION REQUIRES CHIN

PROCESSING ACTION
MASKED FOR INDEYING

X
NO INDEXING PIQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIND DISK
LAN JUDGE INDIAING

The Project KDAFGHAN Renewal for the period 1 July 1971
to 30 June 1973 was approved by the Chief, Western Hemisphere
Division on 29 June 1971 in the amount of $11,950 for FY 1972
and $11,950 for FY 1973.

Roger W. Bicigs
Roger W. BICEGO
Distribution:
Orig & 1 COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATUN SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FORW
لها
53

Internal Dist:
1 RI
1
Chrono
USEFTIOUS EDITION,
CS COPY
03

15′49
AB
FI
DATE
2 JUL 1971
HOS FILE NUMBER
OFFICE
SECRET
OFFICER
ORIGINATING
TYPST
WH/L/Jn hìs/kk/30 Juue 71
COORDINATING
C
OFFICE SYMBO
DATE
OFFICER'S NAME
C/WH 1 30.6-71
RELEASING
VAGISJAJURE
John C. Murray
DISPATCH
:
14-00000

SECRET
PROJECT ACTION

TYPE OF ACTE
APPROVAL
AMINOMENT
NO.
RENEWAL
LP SPATION
X73

WIL/L
DIVISION
Western Hemisphere Division
Mexico City
DESK
WH/1
DATE
EXTENSION
John Davis
BUILDING
TEL.
TERMINATION
10
3 E.04
Hqa
16 June 71
9354 6955:

ORGANIZATIONAL
FLEMENT,

C/WH/1 John C. Murray
C/WH/COG Lawrence Sternfield
C/WH/B&F .C. Healy

C/WH/SS Richard B. Wright

C/WH/FI Richard S. "Welch
CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS
APPASHES
DATES
16/6/71 16/6/71
77
1251611171
6-23-71
6/25/71
C/WH/Plans John D Cassidy
JUN 19/128 JUN 1971

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
DATES
(Type in Organisational Sieront and me Helow Only
When Concurrence Obtained 2x Criginating Element.)

APPROVAL

AMOUNT
PERIOD AMT THIS ACTION FY THIS
72
1 July 71 30 June 73 23,900 $11,950
SIGNATURE
APPROVINS ALTHORITY
C/WHD
FORM
848

SECRET
S JUN 1971

TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
73
LATE
1901
:

1400000

KDAFGHAN - Mexico City, Mexico - FI/CI Support Project
Targetted Against the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.
FY 1972 Cost: $11,950. FY 1973 Cost: $11,950.

KDAFGHAN Project Finance History

APPROVED OBLIGATED
FY 1970 $11,165 $11,165
FY 1971 $11,094 $11,094

Purpose

KDAFGHAN is a support project which provides the Mexico
City Station with fixed photographic and physical surveillance
of the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in Mexico City. The
objectives of the project are to furnish photographic coverage
of the Cuban installation during daylight hours, to assist
the Station in compiling dossiers on officials of the
installation and to fulfill various requirements in support
of other Station Cuban operations.

Description

The KDAFGHAN Project continues to encompass two assets,
KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2, who have been associated with the
project since 1962. Both agents continue to furnish information
on a timely basis on the personalities and activities of the
Cuban target. A description of the individual assets is set
forth below:

a. KDAFGHAN-1 (201-288248): A Cuban lawyer in exile in
Mexico who left Cuba in 1960. He has been the principal
agent of the KDAFGHAN Project since 1962. KDAFGHAN-1's
cover is that of a translator and would-be writer. Family
holdings from his deceased father also provide financial
backstopping. All photographic coverage of the main Embassy
gate through final printing and mounting is processed by
KDAFGHAN-1.

b. KDAFGHAN-2 (201-305604): KDAFGHAN-2 is the mother of
KDAFGHAN-1. Her cover is that of a dependent mother. KDAFGHAN-2
acts as KDAFGHAN-1's assistant and fill-in whenever he is away
from the basehouse.

SECRET

6801
C
cowcorating a8
BIC

14-00000

SECRET

Changes

The only major change during the project year was the
installation of a TV monitor/robot camera combination during
October 1970, the month designated as "Cuban month." This
added coverage contributed to the compilation of target
studies on several Cuban officials, These studies will be
used as a starting point for future operations, namely the
recruitment/defection of these officials.

Accomplishments

1. The main value of the production of the KDAFGHAN
Project has been in establisning the pattern of various Cuban
Embassy employees. The monitoring has also revealed which
automobiles the various employees usually drive. Photographic
coverage of the visitors to the main gate of the Cuban Embassy
and logs of the movement of Cuban Embassy personnel have proved
very useful in identifying new Cuban PCS employees in Mexico,
Normally the Station has been able to match movements of new
and old employees during the initial period when duties and
contacts were being turned over to the new employees and so
identify their duties. KDAFGHAN has provided current photographs
of TDY and transiting Cuban officials and Headquarters has
often provided positive identifications of these persons.
Norberto Hernandez, a DGI headquarters officer
visiting Mexico, was identified in this way.

2. The Station utilizes KDAFGHAN photographic coverage
and logs to verify the visits of Station assets to the Cuban
Embassy.

3. KAFGHAN also provides coverage of what appears to
be American visitors to the Cuban Embassy main gate.
case of Americans who arrive in automobiles bearing U.S.
In the
license plates, the license plate number, car description,
and sterile copies of photographs are given to the FBI for
identification. A significant result of the KDAFGHAN operation
included a photographic of a specific individual an old FBI
target who had been seen visiting the Cuban installation.

4. KDAFGHAN also provided useful coverage for the
KDACOUSTIC-3 operation, an operation aimed at the recruitment
or defection of a DGI officer. This coverage enabled the
Station to determine KDACOUSTIC-3's movements, an important
factor in timing the calls and visits of our access agents.
This use of the operation should prove extremely valuable during
the coming year since a more aggressive recruitment program
against the Cuban target is planned.

SECRET

14-00000

Problems and Security
SECRET

No agent control or operational problems have been
3
reported. Neither were there any security problems encountered
during the period. Gerald D. FAHLANGER continues to be the
Case Officer and handler of KDAFGHAN-1. FAHLANGER has met
and could continue to meet KDAFGHAN-2 in an emergency.
alternate Case Officer is Terence D. SISTONE who meets
The
KDAFGHAN-1 when FAHLANGER is not available. Both Case Officers
are known to the assets in alias, and both meet KDAFGHAN-1
in a safehouse. During February 1971 the safehouse was
changed in compliance with normal operational security.
Meetings are generally held once a week. More frequent
contact can be made by telephone. In an emergency, anyone
can call KDAFGHAN-1 at his home and say they are a friend
of "Pepe Simon." KDAFGHAN-1 will reply "I haven't seen him
since last Christmas." KDAFGHAN-1 speaks English.

Coordination:

The Ambassador is aware of our efforts against the
Cuban target in general. He has not been specifically briefed
on this operation.

Future Plans:
:

The Station is constantly examining the possibility of
an audio installation at the main gate of the Cuban Embassy.
A successful audio device would serve, in most cases, to
identify the individuals who are photographed by KDAFGHAN-1
since they normally identify themselves to the gate house
attendant. There are a few Station assets who have occasional
access to the gate house, and it is conceivable that one of
them could place a quick plant device, provided security
conditions are favorable. The Station currently has under
consideration a recruitment effort against a lower level
employee of the Cuban Embassy who would be of tremendous
help in such an operation.

Costs:

1. General: This renewal request is for FY 1972 in
the amount of $11,950 and FY 1973 in the amount of $11,950.

2. Source of Funds: Project KDAFGHAN is included in
the Western Hemisphere Division's Operating Program in the
amount of $10,844 for FY 1972 and $10,844 for FY 1973.
The additional Funds required are to be absorbed from within
the WH Division allocation.

14-00000

4
3. Project Budget: The following is a cost breakdown for the
preceding, current, and next fiscal years:

FY 1971 FY.1972 FY 1973- FY 1974
Obligations Request Projection Projection
(Estimated)
KDAFGHAN-1 Salary $ 4,800 $ 5,088* $ 5,088 $ 5,088
KDAFGHAN-2 Salary 1,920 2,112* 2,112 2,112
Christmas Bonus 560 600* 600* 600
KDAFGHAN Basehouse Rent
(Observation Post) 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200
KDAFGHAN Safehouse (for
Station meetings with
KDAFGHAN-1) 864 1,200 1,200 1,200
Utilities for Safehouse
and Basehouse 500 500 500 500
Miscellaneous Expenses
(film, paper, chem-
icals, stationary) 1,250 1,250 1,250 1,250
TOTALS $11,094 $11,950 $11,950 $11,950

*Increases reflect the "cost-of-living" granted effective 1 January
1971.

4. Foreign Currency: There are no special requirements for
foreign currency.

5. Commitments: Upon termination, the agents will be paid
a termination bonus not to exceed three month's salary.

6. Funding: Case officers pay the assets directly. The
funds are accounted for with end receipts obtained from the assets.
KDAFGHAN-1 has sufficient private income to cover the JKLANCE funds
he receives..

7. Accountability: All funds are accounted for by receipts
and/or certifications as required by Agency regulations.

Annexes:

None.

14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSMICA
SECRET
TO
Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO.
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Project LIONION Renewal FY 1971
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

MICROFILM

1. The Project LIONION Renewal for FY 1971 was
approved by the Chief, Western Hemisphere Division on
26 June 1970 in the amount of $11,094. A copy of the
Renewal is being forwarded by split transmission.

Douglas F. TASSELL

Attachments:
A) Left Side h/w
B) Center u/s/c via split transmission
C) Right Side u/s/c via split transmission

Distribution:
Orig. & 1-COS, Mexico City w/att h/w & u/s/c via split
CROSS REFERENCE TO
transmission
CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
1 JUL 1970
HMMW-17977
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
30 June 1970
HOS FILE NUMBER
OFFICE
ORIGINATING
TYPIST
✓50-6-122/1
nh
RI WH/1 Scott Holloway
COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME
CHIRONO - 1 OFFICE SYMBOL DATE
401
EXT.
6924
AN AS AB X
RELEASING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
C/WH/1 3
7
John C. Murray
FORM
53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
MFG. 11-48
DISPATCH

14-60000

ORGANIZATIONAL
ELEMENT
SECRET

PROJECT ACTION
TYPE OF ACTION
NEW PROIECT
APPROVAL
AMENOMENT
٦٥٠
RENEDAL
XFY 197
X
DIVISION CA
Western Hemisphere Division
FLELO STATION
Mexico City
BRANCH DESA
LIONION
One.
CASE OFFICER
DATE
EXTENSION Fred Kravcov 24 June 70
ROOM NO.. BUILDING TEL.
REC
BLACK
ΤΕΡΜΙΝΑTION 3E04 Hqs 9041 6954

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS
TYPER NAME ad ignature) DATES
IN OUT
VEVO
ATTACHED

AC/WH/1 Charles Y. Bounds 2tum 24 tune
AC/WH/B&F Wyatt B. Thompson Thompson 6/24
C/WH/SS Richard B. Wright das it 60/25
6-25-78
C/WH/FI Richard S. Welch
C/WH/Plans. Robert B. Moore Men 26 JUN 1970

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
(Type in Organizational Element and Nome Below Only DATES
When Concursence Obtained 2x Criginating Element.)
MEMO
ATTACHED
IN OUT

APPROVAL

PERIOD AUT THIS ACTION FY TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
1 July 1970 30 June 1971 11,094 5 11,094

APPROVING AUTHORITY
SIGNATURE DATE
C/WHD

848 EDITIONS
SECRET

14-00000
LIONION - Mexico City, Mexico - FI/CI Support Project
Targetted Against the Cuban Embassy in Mexico
City. FY 1971 Cost $11,094.

Approved Obligated

1966 $10,718 $ 9,142
1967 11,328 11,590
1968 11,466. 9,726
1969 11,258 10,803
1970 11,994 10,844 (Estimated)

Purpose:

The LIONION Project provides the Mexico City Station
with fixed, selective photographic and physical surveillance
of the Cuban Embassy and Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. It
is designed to provide information in support of Priority A,
paragraphs 2 and 4 of the current Operating Directive, that
is, the Cuban target present in Mexico and the support
rendered by Cubans in Mexico to exile and other leftist
groups in Mexico.

Description:
In
1. The LIONION Project currently encompasses two agents,
LIONION/1 and LIONION/2, a basehouse directly across from the
Cuban compound, and a safehouse for meetings with Station Case
Officers. The two agents furnish photographic coverage during
daylight hours of the main entrance to the Cuban Embassy.
addition, on a spot basis, photographic coverage and visual
surveillance of the Cuban Consulate entrance is possible. The
agents also act as dispatchers for the unilateral LIEMBRACE
surveillance team when the LIEMBRACE team is being used
against Cuban target individuals. A description of the
individual assets is set forth below.

The
2. LIONION/1 (201-288248): A Cuban lawyer in exile in
Mexico who left Cuba in 1960. He has been the principal agent
of the LIONION Project since 1962. LIONION/l's cover is that
of a translator and would-be writer. Family holdings in

14-00000

::
-2-
:

Tampa, Florida, inherited from his deceased father also
provide financial backstopping. LIONION/1 received. his
"immigrado" (permanent immigrant) status in 1965 and now
has a good deal of immunity from harassment from Mexican
immigration authorities. All photographic coverage of the
main Embassy gate through final printing, cropping, and
mounting is processed by LIONION/1. LIONION/1 and LIONION/2
maintain a log which indicates when a photograph was taken,
and pertinent identifying data. License numbers of cars
used by various Cuban Embassy personnel are recorded as woll
as license numbers of cars of unidentified persons visiting
the Cuban Embassy.

3. LIONION/2 (201-305604): Mother of LIONION/1. Her
cover is that of a dependent mother. As with LIONION/1, she
has "immigrado" status and has been associated with the
LIONION