4-00000
104-10188-10015

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UTIL OF ASSAS TEATIONS STAFE SALUCES

1. THIS DOCUMENT 15 CH
2. RETURN THIS DOC

RM GA-50, ON CEVOLI: KDAFGHAN VOL. I.
3. IF YOU FORM 
 SUPPORT
INDIVIDUAL: 50-6-122/1

VE DATES: 25 SexT - 14 MAR FY
PORM
179 TAL UNIT/LOCATION: LAD/000
ROOM: Bent
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
PROJECT KDAFGHAN

VOLUME I SECTION SUPPORT
DATE DATE 
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIENING OFFICIAL

24/78 5/26/78 DA HARDWAY. Dam Handwany
5 July 78 D HAR Dam Hardwany
21 JUL  HARDWAY way
12/20/78 HARDWAY Harduray
12/1/78  Berk 

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
lder 2
A-122/2

RETIRED FILE
DESENSITIZER

CONFIDENTIAL
NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM
2593

14-00000

FROM: (Headquarters component)
10
1.
IP/AN
: (Station/Base)
MEXICO CITY
SECRET

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

FROM: (Division)
COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12
INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

ITEM 10-ENTER OLD. TITLE WHEN AMI.NDING A TITLE. CITE
ANY FILLES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-
LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. III.M 10 MAY
ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION HEING HE
QUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL 10 BE PLACED
IN A FILE ON TO MAKE OTHER FXPLANATORY REMAHK.S.

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST OF STERILE SINCE THLY WILL
APPLAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS

JIEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST DE STERILE.

IIIM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-
DOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUANTIHS ILE.
MINTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES

ITEM 11-A HECOHOS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION HE
QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMOON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.
TYPE OF FILE
INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
SUBJECT
PROJECT
2
COUNTHY NUMBLA
20
CODE (FILE) NUMBER
CATEGORY NUMBE
6
ISPECIFIC SUNILCT NUMBER
122/2
FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT (PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACESI

KDAFGHAN Support
OPLN FILE
AMENO FILE TITLE
ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYSIS ACTION DISPOSITION

CLOSE FILE INDICATE DEPODON RETAIN
OFOPEN
IP/ARD DESTRUCTION FRECOMMENOLO
INRU IDATED
5. 6. REMARKS IFOR FIELD DISTRIBUTIONI

7 INTERESTED STATIONS PROJECTS ONLY)
12:44
HOLD IN
CS FILES
RESTRICTED
O INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTI

FILES ACTION
UNRESTRICTED PREPARE FOLDER AND CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO
SEND TO REQUESTER OFFICER & PESKI
X

10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI

11. 12. 13.
ENDORSEMENT COORDINATION RID APPROVAL
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. Ο. SIGNATUGE OF BHANCH/DESA Я. О. REQUEST APPROVED BY
WHEN APPLICABLEI
Geria former #630 Koliastes M. Conner
EFFECTIVE DATE
CODE (FILE NUMBER

I March 1973 50 06 122/2

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS SECRET 39 1-CS COPY
EDITIONS
MFG 12-65

14-00000.

KOAFGAN 
FORMER CRYPTONYM LIONION
CRYPTONYM CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY ARMSTRONG 
S-E-C-R-E-T
DATE OF CRYPTONYM CHANGE  20/04/71
COMPONENT - PIOVAN 
(RO OR RID SECTION CHIEF)
CABLE OR DOCUVENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM 10 OF FORM 312) - HAMS-7138

N-O-T-1-C-5
THIS IS AN RID NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE
TITLE CRYPTONYM CAUCED BY COMPROMISE. IT...
IS TO BE PLACED IN THE FILE INDICATED AND
TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICIAL
CS RECORD.

S--C---T
FILE IN 050-006-22/02

14-00000

BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION ASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
GROUP 1
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN B

PRONTUTANT NOTIFIED
When Filled In)
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
DISSEM AT
ACTION UNIT PER 28

Z

NO
FILE. VR
18/PN WH8. JDP. FI
TSD-FO ACTION NO
SECRET 141955Z MAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19236
DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR

AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR
REF A. ΗΜΙΑ-41502

B. PANTECH 18798 (1559398)

1. PLS PROCURE TWO 1000 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES
WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.

2. FOR PANTECH: NOT NECESSARY PROCURE SPOTMATICS
UNLESS ADVISED DIFFERENTLY BY DIRTECH. GP-1.
SECRET

560483

SECRET
David

14-00000

SLC
10
Chief, 
SPICE
NO.
Chief, Division; Chief, WOMCAD
CUNMED PER
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
1638
Chief of Station, Mexico City
ACUSTIC APQUAN IDFACTOR
PARTS OFILM
ACTION RICO
Reference: ESXICO CITY 15654
3. Two of the Station photographie cerations, KOFACTOR and
have baca asia, the eh and
Salecoce and kia
cauera ecebinačica for soni: toly tree years.
dese tw
operation provide valedao phoomic cover t
targets and new equipment is required to prove che photographie
quality and increase the capability for isrger coverage during the
day when light conditions are boer.

2. The Dalscope in the DANCHAN-] CP bac a 15. eyepiece cud
is located in a very scall room. A fuil tomgth toge telephoto
lens of 1000 in vill not fit into the space sithost taking out a
concrete wall partition. Terefore a compact catadioptric lens
is required fer tito project.

3. The Dalocope in the P-20P should also be replaced
0
by the same type of lens systea rentioned paraph 2.
Balscope now is use is operated from the top of a table where
MOTACTOR-2 must also stand to cake pictures over a high wall in the
foreground. The system must be removed from the table when now in
use sad stored in a locked foor locker. Ter these reasons the lens
and camera should be light and cerpact to facilitate their use and
storage.

: As can be seen from paragraphs two and three a light weight
compact lens system is desired for both projects and the Station
:
Distribution:
2-CAMKSPICE
2 C/MOACRE
!
2007DE

ES COPY

CROGS NEUFLUKE 10 :
DIATON STEEN ANDER
DATT

MA-43,502
CLADERATION

SECRET
-continued

13 January 1972
50-6-18

14-00000
:
CONTION OF
:
So anxious to repisce the off anfis. The operators are starting to
Cab the walls after Naor year of
Palucope. A verbal art is baca..ceed to
F
Noobtin
to 1000 mm cotadicetrie oprical systems with Fort formatic
camoras. Please autre sur les acts can be coralnes and the
corting procedures. A has started the action on at least
one of these systems through KGSPICE.
!
Charles F. DIEN

14-00000
2531
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION
SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, WOARE NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INFO. Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
FROM
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

Chief, MKSPICE CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBIECT AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN MICROFILM
Ronewal of Passports for KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2
ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES
Reference: ΗΜΜΜ-17955, 11 June 1970

The WOACRE-issued Cuban passports for Subjects have expired.

It is requested that new passports be prepared for them. According
to KDAFGIIAN-1, the new passports should carry the same numbers as
the old passports. The passports, and current photographs of
Subjects, are being forwarded under separate cover. It is
requested that the old passports be returned.

Senior
Elsie I. SCALETTI

Attachment:
As stated u/s/c

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 Chief, WOACRE (w/att. u/s/c)
CROSS REFERENCE TO 1 Chief, WHD (w/o/att) ..
1 Chief, MKSPICE (w/o/att)
50-6-122/2

!
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

HMMA 41480 7 January 1972

MOS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION 201-305604
FFNSP-7,094
SECRET

14-00000
1.
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION ASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
GROUP I
ROUMADOOR INITIALS-SEEN BY

(When Filled In)
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTEO REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY FROHIBITED
DISSEM DV 15

2 PEA
ACTION UNIT FILE, VR
WHE L065 4
ACTION NO
125
SECRET 0918562 NOV 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 18173 9 Νου ΙΝ 465588
DIRECTOR :

ADMIN LOGS KDAFGHAN

:۱۰ REQUEST OBTAIN AND POUCH TO STATION ON PRIORITY
BASIS FOR KDAFGHAN ONE EACH: APRON, CLOTH, F/WW

PAKONOMY PRINT DRYER MODEL 13-S.N.-5932. MFR: PAKO
CORPORATION, MINNEAPOLIS 40, MINN.

2. REQN 559-19-72 APPLIES. GP-1
SECRET

SECRET
Dirticle has wurmesed

14-00000

PERSON UN NORTO
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED BLOTTED
SECRET
GROUP!
ENCLUDED RCM auc
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM AT

PER

ACTION UNIT ISDE-00
ACTION NO. NO FITE. VR IP/AN WH & DDP FI
⑥
SECRET2117207 OCTRICITE MEXICO CITY 18614 (ROSTEDT ACTING)
DIRTECH INFO DIRECTOR, PANTECH

AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN
2:Ост 1.451868
1. KDAFGHAN-1 HAS FOR YEARS USED BALSCOPE LENS
WITH 20 X EYEPIECE FOR ID PHOTOGRAPHY OF VISITORS AND
EMPLOYEES ENTERING KDACOUSTIC. TO IMPROVE QUALITY
PHOTOGRAPHY AND INCREASE CAPABILITY DURING EVENING
HOURS WHEN LIGHTING POOR STATION PREFERS A PHOTOGRAPHICALLY
CORRECTED 1000 MM TELEPHOTE LENS FOR PROJECT. PLS ADVISE
AVAILABILITY OF ABOVE LENS FROM WOACRE STOCK. IF PROJECT
TO DE CHARGED FOR LENS NOTIFY STAΓΙΟΝ.

2. MKSPICE DOES NOT HAVE THIS TYPE LENS IN STOCK GP-1.
SECRET

per file im
KDAFGHルル- Support サフェ
26

SECRET
Dosis

14-00000

CABLE SECHLTARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(Caben Filled
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

FOUTING AND OR INITIALS OPEN P
ADVANCE COPY

DISSEM AT
VR

1753 FILE, V / 28, 2010/12
ACTIOY NO.
123

SECRET 222053Z OCT 70 CITE MEXICO CITY 4653
22.0AT IN 1910.5.7
DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR M
RYBAT AQUATIC
REF: DIRTECH 0:31 (11189977)

1. FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF EQUIPMENT USED IN PROJECTS
CONE EACH OF ITEMS LISTED):

A. LILYRIC:
TELESCOPE, BALSCOPE BAUSCH AND LOMB.;

CANERA, SP, NN, EXAKTA W/O LENS;

CAMERA, PENTAX NEL H3V;

BICAL LAI
TELESCOPE, SHE, BAUSCH AND LOMB., BALSCOPE;

CAMERA, SP, 35, EXAKTA, WO/LENS;

C. LIONION:
BINOCULARS, 10250, TASCO, JAP MDL;

TELESCOE, BAUSCH AND LOMB BAL SCOPE SR.;

CAMERA, PENTAX 35 MM;

DRIER, PHOTO PAKONOMY NDL 13.;

ENLARGER, LEITZ WETZLER FOCOMAT IC;

MOTOROLA HANDIE-TALKIE FM RADIOPHONE;
D

Wheelh

SECRET
FILE: LIONION SUP

14-00000

CABLE SECRETAPIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFICO MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

SECRET
(When Filled In)
ROUTING ANDIGA INITIALS SLLH
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED REPHODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITEC

ΘΥ:
PEA

ACTION UNIT FILE, VR
ACTION NO.
2

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 4653 SECRET

MOTOROLA RADIOPHONE;

CAMERA, RETINA;

LENS, RETINA 501M;

LENS, RETINA 35MM;

LENS, RETNA 801.
50-6-32/2.
2. FILE: FRATAEWZWM GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

14-00000

DISPATCH

СПАЛКАТON
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR.INDLENG

XXX NO INDEXING REQUIRED
FROM
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
ACTING Chief of Station, Mexico City
CAN JUDGE IEDEXXONG

SUBJECT MICROFILM
Transmittal of Document Receipt for LIONION Passports
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

Reference: 11MMN 17955, 11 June 1970.

Forwarded under separate cover is the document receipt
for the LIONION passports.

for/Horace E. PRALLETT
Attachment:
loatt

CROSS REFERENCE TO
document receipt (u/s/c) 27 July 1970

Distribution:
Orig. and 2 Chief, WILD (w/att, u/s/c)

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

ΗΜΜΑ 39115 26 June 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

14-00000
