104-10266-10026
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT J. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
When Filled In
SECRET
22 JAN 1975
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,
I have reviewed the 201 file on COBB (surname)
(201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can
most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

☐  should be closed.

☐  witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

☐  potential witting collaborator; date opened
OI Code A2.

☑  former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OI Code A3.

☐  potential witting collaborator never contacted (security
reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

☐  counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign
intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

☐  all others. OI Code A6.

Signed  
(name)

LA/M/A
(component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed 
(initials)
3 FEB
(date)
197

This document is a permanent part of this file.

SECRET
When Filled In
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L

201-278841
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 054979

:

:
: SECRET
CASE OFFICER CHECK LIST
PROJECT
CRYPT/PSEUDO: LICOOKY/1 (Joyce H. PINEINCH)
AREA/BASE : WH/New York C/o:
201278841 (7 Vol.)
aka:

I. TRACES
Base:  Req'd by Base: DO Base/N.Y.-3219, 1 Aug 67
Other: (For local traces) Req'd by:
(Specify)

Hqs:

Reply to Base:

II. CLEARANCES
POR  : Req'd DO Base/N.Y.-3219 Granted
PRQ I fw'd to CI/CA 3 Aug 67
PCSA  : Green List #282786-
Req'd
Granted:

- QA  : Req'd  Granted:
Complete PRQS I & II fw'd
CSA : Req'd Granted
CNC  : Req'd Granted
OTHER : Req'd Granted
1 (Specify)
SGSWIRL:

III. SPECIAL APPROVALS/CONCURRENCES
60-11 : Req'd Granted
A/WOMACE: Req'd Granted
LSERGO : Req'd Gaanted
Field Office Coordination
OTHER  : DCS: #039, 3 Aug 67
(Specify)

IV. CONTRACTS
Type:
Secrecy Agnat;
Eff. Date & Term
Termination Date

V. ACCOMMODATION ADDRESS:
(Describe briefly)

ACCOMMODATION TELEPHONE:
(Describe briefly)

VI DOMESTIC ASSETS INVENTORY
Fw'd Hqs.Rec'd

VII. TERMINATION OF INTEREST
Date:Hqs. Notified
Reasons for Termination:

Clearance Cancelled:
Secrecy Agreement:
Quit Claim:

SECRET
:
SECRET
(When Fals In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
CCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
COBB, Vida June

RI FILE NO.

S. ANALYST
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.4- DATE

SOURCE CRYPTOWYM. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION
6. DATE PROCESSED  
1. DISSEMINATED IA-DATE

DOCUMENT : EPOSITION

2- CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
13. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE 10.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

THERE IS A PESTRICTED CI/CA FODER ON THE SUBJECT

OF THIS 201 EELD UNDER C
8345
201-278841
15.
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM
867 USE PEVIOUS EDITIONS.SECRET

(7-46)

SECRET

11 October 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

WH/Personnel, Attention: Renehan
VIA  :
SUBJECT :  Joyce C. PINEINCH (201-278841)

1. Subject has been terminated effective 1 July 1966
by the Mexico City Station.  She was paid her salary through
30 June and was given her income tax refund for the
period 1 January 1965 through 30 June 1966.  A copy of the
termination Secrecy Oath, signed in true name, is on file
10 subjects visivi 20.

2. It is requested that the CPD and Office of Finance
files be altered to reflect the termination of Subject.

W. J. Kaufman
C/WH/1

13 October

red fia
WH IB+F
clwHiss

clepp
OF ICAAS

201-278841

*
SECRET
Miss Joyce H. Placinch

Dear Miss. Pinetr.ch 

MOC

Reference is made to your turrent vith the
United States Government, as represeered by the Contracting
Officer.

Effective 21 April 1966
MOC
is amended by deleting an reference to acome taxes thereirom,
and by adding thereto the following paragraph:

"10. Taxes As an indepenent contractor, monies
above constitute taxable
must sartly your Federal
paid you under paragraph four (4)
ncome for Federal tax purposes and
tax ability thereon Such income may be paid you by or through
a cover facility Because of cover, operational, and security
considerations the Tax Committee of the organization is autorized
to make certain caterminations and estab.sh procedures (including
tax withholdings) which will result in the sitsaustacuon of your
Security tax calications, it is spective
understood and agreed that such determinations ani procedures,
whether oral of Britten, constitute an in egral part of this contract
and are legally incorporated herein by reference."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in
full force and effect.

IMTED STATES GOVERNMENT
BY

Contracting Officer

:
SECRET
Group 1 Excluded from automatic dewegrading and declassification

ey WH/BIF
341.

MEMORANDUM CF ORAL CHIDS Date 25 Septester 1962

TO : Chief, Finance Division
VIA : Contract Approving Officer
FROM : Chief of Station, Mexirc City
SUBJECT: Engagement of LCC0-1 as Independent Contractor.

1. TERM AND PROJECT CHARGE: The Subject individual has been engaged under oral
contract for use under Project 
and.is chargeable to hearters
The effective date of the oral contract is  subject to termi-
nation by ODYOKE upon 3 days' actual notice.

2. SECURITY APPROVAL: The appropriate security approval for Subject'e use has
been ottained. Type A Date 22 August 192

3. CITIZENSHIP: The Subject () is ( ) is not a foreign national.

4. COMPENSATION: The Subject will be paid  250.00 dollarsper  dollars.
The approximate equivalent of this amount in PBPRIME currency is $
Subject () will () will not receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to dollars
Other compensations in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts,
paid vacations, etc. include:

5. TAXES : Subject is ( ) is not subject to PEPRIME income taxes. If Subject
to PBTKIME income taxes, payments and/or deductions will be made in the following manner
1 4, deducted. or $45.00

6. QUARTERS AND/OR.SUBSISTENCE: (a) SUBJECT ( ) vill XX will not be
.rs and/or subsistence allowances. (b) The following commitments have been made
expenses:

7. OPERATIONAL EXPENSES: (a) Subject (1) will ( ) will not be reimbursed for
operational travel. (0) Subject () will () will not be reimbursed for operational
expenses. State nature of any operational expenses for which Subject will be reim
bursed: Le Beareres by Care Officer and Chief of Station

8. CONTINGENT ÜBLIGATIONS: The following have not been promised the individuai
but may have to be met by ODYOKE. Give reason for each contingent obligation

Nave

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.
Revieved
Contract Approving Officer
Signed
Case Officer
Distribution: 3 Authentic copies to Hqs
1 File P-
1 Admin Office
Approved its
Field Contracting Officer (COS)

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICERS:
201-278841
1. Prepare Orig & 4 copies for distribution as above. Extra copies as needed.
2. PRIOR HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL IS REQUIRED before any commitments can be made
regarding the following special benefits: Death; Disability; Kissing in Action;
Resettlement; and Citizenship or Emergency Assistance.
3. The dispatch sending copies to dase should provide, among other things, the
following: (a) Statement regarding primary functions of the individual and the cover
under which he will operate; (b) Pay instructions if to be paid by Headquarters; and
(c) If cover income is to be offset, the amount of such income and date of first
payment by the cover organization.
SECRET

i

4:11 19, Jane Cobb called the New York Dobs office about what to do about her
C. salary on her income tax return.

After discussions with SF/CAMS and George Powell of the Tax Committee, I phoned
DODC to telll Cobb the following:

Since she was supposedly a student in Mexico, dan and she had
paid tax on her CIA salary, she was not to list her salary anywhere
on her, 1966 tax return.  However, she, should send us a copy of
her overt 1916 tex return.

charlotte Bustce-Videla

RID CONTROL NO. (Pilled in by 8)
SECRET
(When Failed In)

DOCUMENT SERVICE REQUEST

FROM: (Requester's name) OR AFFIX REQUESTED GUNNED LABEL.

RenihanBR1469
TO:

1 RID/FILES
CATE OF REQUEST
18-7-67
PHONE NO.
ROOM NO.
INITIALS
.co.
WH/PER 3D53094468
INSTRUCTIONS

2 REQUESTER

3 RID/FILES

4

5

SUBJECT
1. Use this fore to request files and/or.documenta
from RID/FILES. (Not to be used in lieu of Form
362.)
2. Include badge number and tade station in "FROM"
block if gummed label has not been issued.
3. Indicate type of charge:
Tompor eгy
Permanent
4. Indacete source of reference:
Document reference from FID/Index.

Ant reference from source other
D/Index.

Orinernch,  N.
ERIFIED
AT SIO2
ARMANOFO
CS COPY ATTACHED

PLEASE RETURN PROMPTLY

HOFF NARED
DOCUMENT DATE
FORM: 1870 (38)

11-64
USE PREVIOUS
CDITIONS
:
SECRET

4

.1
21 April 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Finance

VIA: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Joyce H. PINETECH (n) - Tax Assessment

1. A covert Federal income tax percentage of two and eight-
teaths (02.8) per cent of PINCINCE's gross, texable Agency entitle-
monts has been approved by the Covert Tax Comittee. This percan
tage assessment is effective 1 December 1964, the beginning dats of
tax year 1965.

2. The retroactive application of this assessment to tax year
1965 will result in a dollar assessment of $84.00 (02.8% of $3,000.00).
After applying the 1965 covert tax withholding of $540.00, a refund
of $455.00 will be das PIMEDSCH for 1965. This eliminates the require-
sent for a covert tax return for 1965.

3. ka ecknowledged letter of instruction will be forwarded at a
later date.
(5) JENN F. FATTEN
JOHN F. PATTON
Secretary
Finance (2)
CPD
OF/CTB
CIC #361

Covert Tax Committee

201-278841

SECRET
SECRET
(WHETED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING INSTRUCTIONS TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fin Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap ile no. and title shown are not proper,

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records insert proper file no. below and forward

significant action taken or comments requir document to RID/AN.
ing preservation.
FROM:  PROPER FILE NO.

RIDIAN

TO TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

NO. FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
ROOM DATE

1. DO/RI 4.85
RECEIVED FCEWARDED INITIALS
APR

2. C/PO/1/15-224 1958 B
APR

3. 2,m

4. Lee

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

you-attere files ocomil
POFT. Smake copy
to send to CI/opp Do
but give to me as
Want to maki a comment.

:
DATE
201-278341
17. FILE TITLE

RID/FI FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
ABSTRACT
TRACE
REQUEST

UNDER
INDER
DOCUMENT CATE
USE PREVICUS
EDITIONS
DOCUMENT NUMBER
(40) SECRET 69
DISPATCH

TO

:
CLASIFICATION
PROCLING ACTION
Chief, Domestic Operations SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING

XXX NO INDEXING PEQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM : Chief of Base, New York MICROFILM

SUBJECT : D ISOLOG/LICOOKY - Termination of Contact with LICOOKY/1
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action required: retire file, again.

References: A. UNDA 3502, 22 January 1968

B. UNDA 3650, 13 March 1968

1. During a meeting with LICOOKY/1 on 5 April 1968 agreement
was reached that the WOFIRM relationship with her would be terminated.
A memorandum of contact (NYM-2689) concerning the meeting is attached
herewith, and indicates the reasons for this termination.  No admin-
istrative action is required of either the Base or Headquarters
in this instance, e as not being paid by us here, and
was formally terminated once before (1966).  Her file can be retired,
again, and this time presumably will be the last time.

2. Termination was very amicable, and LICOOKY/1 nolds no ill-
will for WOFIRM: she just does not wish to have any relationship
with WOFIRM anymore.

3. The writer fully expects to hear from LICOOKY/1 from time
to time by phone (in fact, she called later the same day of the
meeting to wish the writer a pleasant Easter, as she had forgotten
to do so during the meeting), but does not plan any further personal
contact.

Attachment: NYM-2689 h/w

Distribution: 2 C/DO w/att.

:

4/w att CS CODV DATE 17 April 1968
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CROGG REFERENCE TO
PR 22 1968
201-278841
UNDA 3739-3761
HOS FILE NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-278841
MEMORANDUM 5 April 1968

SECRET NYM-2689

TO: LICOOKY/1 File Distribution:
A Chrono
FROM: Howard G. FIGALAN1 Chrono
1-LLCOOKY/1
1-W3M/Info (paras 3,4
& 5)
SUBJECT: Meeting with LICOOKY/1,
5 April 1968

1. A meeting with LICOOKY/1 was held at 1100 hours, Friday,
5 April 1968.  We breakfasted, and then held the meeting at the
BARTHOLOMEW site.  As is detailed below, we reached a mutual
agreement that the relationship was not worth pursuing this was
thoroughly amicable, and recontact methods are available on both
sides.
LUW.. .. 20 for the da
2. Substantive matters first. LICOOKY/1 said that John GERASSI
had been in
He was inced to lunch
at the CMUN that day, Sunday.  Apparently, GERASSI, is back in the
good graces of the Cuban regime.  He told LICOOKY/1 that he would
be spending this Summer in Arizona.

3. LICOOKY/1 has been commissioned by M. S. ARNONI, editor
of The Minority of One, to write a piece on the recent intellectuai/
political developments i Czechoslovakia.

4. LICOOKY/1 thought up, and is arranging, a Czech film fesval
to egin 15 April.  It is to be sponsored by the St. Clemens Fiim
Association, St. Clemens Church, 423 West 46th Street (this churca
houses the American Place Theatre -- Robert LOWELL'S group). LICOCKY/1
got this idea from the recent Czech travaiis which she hails as
Evidence of the power of Czech intellocracy -- and from the co.....on
referred to in paragraph 3 above.  Se contacted the Czech UN MASS
which put her in touch with PAVLIC, the Czech Cultural Attache
the Washington Embassy.  PAVLIC was all for the idea, and wii. be
mere for the opening of the festival. Milos FORAN (director
the film "Loves of a Blonde") is currently here at the Hotel Cas.
(a "cump on 23rd on the West Side" -- LICOOKY/'s characterizati
and will participate in the festival.  KADAR (director of the "
orain Street") has been invited to participate.  LICOOKY/1
Who is to ask PAVLIC waether it would be OK for her to ask DRV.
ces film at Colbia and who is a Czech in exile, to part...ate.
KY/1 is very enthusiastic about this venture.

:

5. COMMENT: Los FORMAT is mentioned in the article about
Coachoslovakia in Line 5 April 1968 issue of Wine Suganire.

HTW al. 1.TO UNDA 3761 SECESECOPY 201-27884/
not so
SECRET 2

6. I knew something was bothering LICOOKY/1 and made her
drag it out into the open.  She started by remarking that WOFIRM
and its computer apparently checked the welfare of its old agents
every so often, and that this was the nature of our relationship.
I explained that this was not the case, that I had found out she
was in Manhattan and suggested to Washington that LICCOKY/1
might be of some value to us.  This surprised her, and she apolo-
gized.  She then took off on how when she was in Cubasshe had
dealt with Fidel and Che and Celia, and when she was involved
with Guatemala she was dealing with AREVALO.  She said that she
didn't want to sound snobbish, but that she was accustomed to
dealing with top politicos and intellectuals; she referred to a
statement that I had made previously that perhaps she could get
Tana de GAMEZ to invite her along to one of Tana's lunches with
Cuban Permanent Representative Ricardo ALARCON Quesada.  She said
that she didn't want WOFIRM to think that she would seek out and
cultivate lower level people, that she wasn't built that way.
LICOOKY/1 said that even though Tana was a friend and that she
liked ner, Tana was not ner equal, and that Täna wasn t 'on her
pedestal".  That RCON was certainly not in LICOOKY/l's intellectual
category.  LICOOKY/1 said that she considered herself as very flexible,
but not that much.  LICOOKY/1 is a "special person" and that
WOFIRM bureaucracy -- with the exceptions of "Bill" (her Mexico
case officer, a friend of the writer), C/WH/1 (with whom LICOOKY/1
is particularly taken), and the writer (LICOOKY/1 repeatedly assured
me that she had a very sincere esteen for me) probably didn't
understand or acknowledge this.  LICOCKY/1 said her feelings for
certain WOFIRMers were one thing, but her dislike of WOFIRM itself
was something else.  WOFIRM is a massive card index that shows Miguel
Angel ASTURIAS as an old "Nicaraguan war-horse" ASTURIAS of
course is Guatemalan.  LICOOKY/l couldn't stop liking Communists
regarāless of WOFIR desires.
and
7. LICOOKY/1 went on and on in this/similar veins, verý
impassioned, but very straightforward and without personal rancor
for the writer.  Summing up, the stated reasons as to why she does
not wish to continue regular collaboration with WOFIRM are as
follows:

A. fear of compromise -- LICCOKY/1 said that were her
relationship with us to become known, it would ruin her
standing in and associations with the intellectual
community:

B. distaste for WOFIRM -- LICCORY/1 really believes that
WOFIRM is a large card file with all the cards aaving.
errors on them;

SECRET
SECRET

- 3 -

C. intellectual honesty -- LICCOKY/1 coes not think that
her intellectual honesty gains from her WOFIRM relation-
ship;

D. lack of understanding -- FOFIRM, except for the three
officers cited above, does not really understand the
real LICCOKY/1.

8. Obviously, the unsaid reasons are the ones that really
brought about this "confrontation", in the writer's opinion. These
are as follows:

A. emotional instability -- LICOOKY/1, as has been known for
years by the writer, is not the most stable of individuals;

B. money -- LICOOKY/1 receives no money from us anymore
(since her termination in Mexico), and the writer suspects
that LICOOKY/1 could have more easily rationalized working
for the "Giant Indices in Washington" were she on salary;

c. sex -- in this case, lack of same (LICCOKY/1 comes always!
το emotional involvement with her male associates, and
her Case Officers cannot fulfill this need, thus giving
rise to problems; in the past, LICOOKY/1 could easily
cbtain her physical/emotional fulfillment in Cuba and
Mexico without relying on the Case Officer, but now she is
setting older and quite shop-worn and cannot compete for
attention from men in the environment of a place such as
Manhattan);

D. discipline -- again, in this case, lack of same; LICOOKY/1
tell us what she does, we don't tell her what she should
do.

9. LICOOKY/1 exhibited some anguish over this whole affair.
She has been upset for the past month, over this as well as over
the confused outlook for her in general. It was made very clear
- one point what aid and comfort could have been extended to
LICOOKY/1 to alleviate her anguish, and the writer beat a hasty
retreat to the kitchenette for a tactical drink of water.

10. Not elaborated above were the writer's answers to
LICOOKY/1's opinions, but these were effective in cou...ring her
logic, if not her actitudes. LICOOKY/1 had to agree to : WOPIRA
did have grounds for its assessment of her performance not
awfully good.

SECRET
SECRET

- 4 -

11. At any rate, the entire proceedings were very amicable,
and, as mentioned above, LICOOKY/1 stressed that her basic oppo-
sition to WOFIRM was not on personal grounds, as she had enjoyed
her dealings with her "three favorite contacts". She offered to
call the writer anytime she had something tangible to pass on, and
that he should do the same. It's just that she would be more
comfortable as an ex-agent than as a current one. The writer
fully expects to hear from her from time to time.

12. It actually was quite an interesting session.

SECRET

sure

201-278841

SECRET

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

TO: CHIEF, CI/OA

FROM: (DIVISION) (Case officer) (Extension)

DO/I/B-2 Lee Peterson 4008

SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt or true may be used)
NAME SHOWN IS
LICOOKY/1 PSEUDO

Cl/DA NO. 201 NO. AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD
201-278841 PLACE OF BIRTH
IS ATTACHED

DATE OF BIRTH 24 August 1927, Ponca, Oklahoma WILL BEFORE

REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION

Subject requested that her relationship with CIA be terminated.

DATE SIGNATURE

29 April 1968 Lee Ann Peterson

IF SUBJECT IS USED IN ANY CAPACITY, A NEW REQUEST FOR APPROVAL WILL BE SUBMITTED TO CI/OA
FORM 937 SOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION. (30)

2-58 SECRET

DISPATCH PROCESINO ACI
CLASIFICATION
MARKED ICR INGEYMS
Chief of TO DO THE
CILY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN LO MUEXING
FROM
Chief of Base, New York
MICROFIL
For your information:.  does have a 201-file

(201-820103).  However, in the file to

identify her half-sister or her me, who claisse to have

been recruited by

Distribution:

Orig. & 2-CO3, New York Jessica T. LADATT

-

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPARGH SYMBOL AND FUNER DATE

201-270041 1568

SECRET

201-828165

CLASFACTIC ORIGINATING OFFICER
NPIST
DO/I/B-2:1.Peterson/mb 20 Mar 68 1
COORDINATING GRINTER

201-329165
:
1 - DO/RI
1 - RID/AN

DO/I/B-2 
A
B/N
OFFICE SP.
c/DO/1/B-2 -
1008
Walter L, O'Brien

DISPATCH

DISPATCH PROCESSING ACTION
CLASIPICATION
CARED FOR WINDEXING
FROM Chief, DO

ACTING ALY SUALI
CHIEF OF
SUBJECT Tana de GAMEZ MICROFILM

ACTION PEQ: Per para 1 & 7
ACTON REQUIRED REFERENCES

1. During a meeting with LICOOKY/1 on 7 March 1968, the agent
passed on the following information which may be of interest to the
appropriate Headquarters components.  L/1 apologized for the lack
of details, but the agent was not in a position to pump for further
information beyond that which was volunteered.

2. On 7 March Tana de GASZ, a naturalized U.S. citizen of
Spanish origin, said that she had been telephoned the night before by
ann of har half_elster Hercedes (last name unknown to L/1), her
her nephew Roy.  The latter is a college student somewhere in Connecticut
(possibly the University of Connecticut), and his home is somewhere
in Westchester County.  Roy said that he was calling his Aunt Tana
because he knew that she had worked for CSS during WWII; Tana
rejoined that she had never had anything to do with OSS, that she
had worked for the Office of war Information (WI).  At any rate,
Roy said that he wanted to tell his Aunt Tana that he had been
"recruited by the CIA, and that he was only going to work for the
CIA so as to evade the draft.  Upon being questioned on this, Roy
maintained that he had been recruited by the CIA on campus.
:

3. The nephew's statements rather rattled Tana de GAMEZ, to
the point where she had to take her heart medicine for palpitations
(she has a heart history). Among other things, Tana was upset by the
thought of a family member being affiliated with the CIA, even though
the nephew is disliked by her as an individual.

4. Tana de GA32 was a member of the U.S. delegation to the
Havana Cultural Congress in January 1968. She is a well-known figure
in the intellectual leftist set in New York, and is outspokenly pro-
Castro. She is a member of the editorial board of Grove Press; is
a published author herself; ani is a close friend and associate of
John GERASSI, formerly of Ramparts Magazine.
201-829165.
5. Tana de GANZZ is the subject of a voluminous file at t
LNERGO office here.  LNERGO information, which agrees with Base
information obtained from L/1, indicates that de GAMSZ is vocal but
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL SAC NUMBER
CONTINUED

11 March 1968
HMDA-300
CA DATE

CLASSIFICATION NOS FILE NUMBER

SACRT 201-27 83 41
58

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
SECRET
UNDA-3650 Page 2 of 2

harmless. She considers herself a loyal American, but does not find
this to be incompatible with being a vigorous "New Left" type. She
recently became the Latin American editor of Manhattan FM radio sta-
tion WEAI, an interesting melange of bourgeois/avant-garde programming
slanted toward the left, according to 1/1.
:

6.' Tana de GAMEZ is in fraquent contact with Ambassador
Ricardo ALARCON Quesada, Permanent Representative of Cube to the
United Nations; she also is in contact with Jose Raul VIERA Linares,
DGI officer within the CMJN.

7. Tana de GAMEZ probably is the subject of a 201 file at
Headquarters; if so, this dispatch should be cross-referenced to
that file. If not, the Base suggests that de GAZZ bo indexed.

8. Re paragraph 2 above, L/1 agreed that what the nephew prob-
ably meant was that he had been interviewed on campus, and that this
to him meant that he had been accepted for employment.

DISTRIBUTION:

2-DO Howard G. FIGALAN

FORM EDITION (40)
2-64 530 iSE PREVIOUS 1
CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO.
SECRAT 2 of 2
DISPATCH PROCESSING ACTION
CLASIFICATION
MARKED FOR DELING
FROM Chief of Base, New York
SUBJECT
Chief, Domestic Operations Division
☑
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE 14DING

D LICOOKY/1
MICROFILM
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
Reference: UNDA-3502 dated 22 January 1968

A copy of Subject's PRQ I is being forwarded under
separate cover as per request. There was no: PRQ Part II
in Subject's file.

:
$.7.2.
Jessica T. LABATT
Attachment: U/8/C
As stated.

Distribution:

2- New York
CS COPY

DATE
CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER 01 FEB 1968
201-278841

UNDW-2149
HOS FILE NUJABER

CLASSIFICATION SECRET 201-278841

OFFICE OFFICER DATE

DO/I/B2 Lee Peterson sm (29 Jan, 68)
OFFICERS NAME
COORDINATING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE
RELEASING

DO/I/B2

30/1/168

John 4008
M. Markham

C/DO/I/B2 Walter L. O'Brien

DISPATCH
18

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
SECRET
TO: Chief, DO

XXX NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM Chief of Base, New York MICROFILM

SUBJECT: ISOLOG -- LICOOKY/1

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION REQ: Forward PRC Parts I and II, per paragraph 3 below

REF: UNDW -- 2013, 29 Kovember 1967

1. Reference advised that a POA had been issued to
LICOOKI/1 for Base contact to determine her access to targets
of interest.

2. The undersigned met with LICOOKY/1 on 20 December 1967
and 4 January 1968 and it appears that she can and will be of
operational service to us. Headquarters will be kept abreast
of future operational developments as they unfold.

3. For purpose of our background knowledge here, we
would appreciate receiving copies of LICGOKT/I'S PRQ Part I
and her most recent PRO Fart II. No other material from her
voluminous 201 file is really needed here, as the undersigned
is conversant with her case from Headquarters' days.

4. A new PRQ Part II will be compiled on her in the near
future.
:

DISTRIBUTION:

2-DO

CROSS REFERENCE TO
Howard G. FIGALAN

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND KUMBER DATE
JAN 22 1965
201-278841
19 January 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER
201-278341
:

DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION 

MARKETING
SECRET
TO Chief of Base, New York
INFO
FROM
Chief, Domestic Operations Division
PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING
X 20% CUE F
CAN
SUBJECT ISOLOG/LICOOKY/1 MISELARIM

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES MICROFILM

REFERENCE: UNDA-3303, 25 October 1967

1. A POA is issued for contact with Subject to explore
her access to targets and information of operational interest
in the Latin American and possibly Cuban context. In issuing
the POA, WOMUSK made the following comments:

a. In dealing with this Subject it should
be recalled that her past association with WOFIRM
has been widely blown through broad publicity.

b. It is recommended that Subject be handled
by a strong, mature case officer who can and will
avoid emotional involvement with the Subject