14-00000
104-10194-10014

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

ILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: O'CONNELL, JAMES

INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OP

ROOM: 5E13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
RECEIVED RETURNED PAT URR TH
9/11 12 1978 ORR
22 SEP 1978

NO DOCUMENTS PAY SE COPIED OR REF VFD FROM THES FILE
OCONNELL, JAMES P.TERMINATED 84

---
14-00000

ADMINISTRATION

VALY

28 August 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security
THROUGH : Deputy Director for Managemont
and Services
SUBJECT : Intelligence Medal of Merit for
Mr. James P. O'Connell, Jr.

The Honor and Merit Awards Board is pleased to
notify you that the Intelligence Medal of Merit has
been approved for Mr. James P. O'Connell, Jr., and
requests that you inform him of the award. Arrange-
monts for presentation may be made with the Executive
Secretary, Honor and Merit Awards Board, extension
3645, room 412, Magazine Building.
/s/ R. L. Austin, Jr.
R. L. Austin, Jr.
Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Board
Distribution:
O & 1 Addressee
OPF w/forms 382 & 600
1 - Exec Sec/IMAB
1 - Recorder/HМАВ
JALY
A
OPF
---
14-00000

REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD

DD/NAS OPF
23-4566 DATE
10 August 1973

The Honor and Merit Awards Board having considered a recommendation that:
SERIAL ON 10 NO. NAME (Last Finst Middlel SEX. BIRTHTEAP
009784 O'CONNELL, James Patrick, Jr. 1917 M
OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT FMPLOYEE
S0
STATIG
D-M&S/OS 55 GS 16
SCHEDULE OR GRADE
BE ARARDED

Intelligence Medal of Merit
FOR HEROIC ACTION ON
FOR MERITORIOUS SERVICE OR ACHIEVEMENT DURING THE PERIOD September 1965 - June 1973
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL DOES NOT RECONNEND APPROVAL

RECOMMENDS AWARD of

UNCLASSIFIED CITATION
REMARKS

Mr. James P. O'Connell, Jr. is hereby awarded the
Intelligence Medal of Merit in recognition of his es-
pecially meritorious service with the Central Intelligence
Agency for more than 21 years. Mr. O'Connell's broad
knowledge of Agency security activities and his unusual
executive talent are factors that have been instrumental
in his making a truly significant contribution to the
mission of this Agency. Throughout his career, Mr.
O'Connell, an unusually dedicated officer, has con-
sistently displayed a high degree of professionalism,
reflecting great credit on him and the United States
Government.

(Recommendation approved by A-DD/M&S on 16 July 1973)

APPROVED
Il Vernon A. Walters STATUS/ John r.
DATE TYPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, HONOR AND MERIT AVAS BOARD
SIGNATURE
27 AUG 1973 John F. Blake

(Signed on Original)
TYPED NAME OF RECORDER DATE
R. Austin, Jr.
.

382 JABCOETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
8-69
(4)

---
14-00000

C0074
CI
Security EXTOO

1333 Elsinore Ave,
Intelligence Meat of Merit Virginia
SECTION B
A TON TOS

1. FULL AL W

W
26. LOCATION
23. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIGAS ANG GUSTACLES CACOUNT JALY
24. OFFIC12-Addressee
25. COMESENT Deputy Director for Physical, Technical and Oversea Security
Office obec ficadenarters

physical, teennical, and overseas security for me Agency. This additio
the supervision una guidance to area Security
world.

35.
200
10.
10.
450
J1:

---
14-00000

:
dates of
ende
Off

ca of ormin.
The incivitusl
rcote re-
sofie whe
pert and as Chief, Regional
required not only a broad
aal executive ability, which
to "Outstanding.

lon to the Agency and O
Mr. O'Connell has respere for providing executive dires
guidance to a highly sensitive and complex an of Agency security. This
physical technical and overseas secular ar since August 1965. Provi
he served in positions of Chiet, Sesarty Pelicy and Executive Staff, A
Director for Investigations and Operations
Cificer for the Far East. All of these posta
Agency and security activities but also in ur
O'Connell's case has been consistently rated
evidence of many contributions.and.
the many kuda he has received weare. Ne
1959, in 1961, 1965, 1969: letters of depresion in 1969, 1971, and 1973.
and the sersitety of many of these recogniti do not permit a full and com
here indicative of the callber of pretessionalism and dedicatio
beed of him.
eved commendations 'n 191

rammation, Mr. O'Connell has demonstrated, particularly after assum
resp
that boe
to d
in this Office, an urusrat and
a hallmark of his serie
ficult to emulate and is a di
elfless dedication and profes
Agency and the count:
net credit to the Office and..
and
P
unt Deputy
rity
edge of
rher
are
wo in
Le space

has
xecutive
Riism
record
ency.
1
4.3.

Cha
SEAD
CAREER SERVICE
10
CONTIS SHEET

LOYLE WAXING of Sec
avlaton of S
the OF THE ACT

45
CONTIS SHEET
1373
1370
---

14-00000
CI

36. Dsard Respons
sontor Agency officials canloud rarge of security m... Is with
bent
senior advisor st Sirecto. a. Security. The
also formulated, recommended and implemented secar.cles,
procedures and measures to protect the security integrity of Agency
activities.

---
14-00000
4 September 1973

Mr. James P. O'Connell....
1333 Elsinore Avenue
McLean, Virginia 22101

Dear Mr. O'Connell:

As you reach the end of your active carcer
of Government service, I want to join your friends
and colleagues in wishing you continued success
and satisfaction in your retirement.

You have been privileged to face the challenge
of important responsibilities during your many years
of service to your country. The success with which
you have met this challenge should be a source of
lasting pride and satisfaction to you.

May I extend to you, personally and officially,
my sincere appreciation for the important work you
have done and my warmest hopes that you will find
full enjoyment in the years ahead.

Sincerely,

/s/ W. E. Colby

Distribution:
0 Addressee
1- D/Pers
OPF
1 ROB
1 ROB Reader

OP/RAD/PJS/1ks
W. E. Colby
Director
Originator:
Director of Personnel
201

---
14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

29 JUN 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Management and Services
SUBJECT : Request for Voluntary Retirement -
Mr. James P. O'Concell, Jr.

1. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your
approval in paragraph 3.

2. The employee named above has applied for voluntary
retirement under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-50j.

Grade: G6-16 Position: Scearity Officer
Career Service : Security
Office/Division : Cliice of Security
Date Requested for Retirement: 29 June 1973
Age at that Date : 96
Years of Creditable Service : 27
Years of Agency Service : 21
Years of Qualifying Service : 5

3. The applicant's Career Service and the CIA Retirement Board
recommended that the request be approved. I endorse these recom-
mendations.

Narry B. Fisher
Director of Personnel

4. The recommendation contained in paragraph 3 is approved:

a/ Robert S. Wattles
Deputy Director for Management and Services
:
ONISTRATIVE - INTERNAL US ONLY
Date

---
14-00000

Distributiom

0- Return to Director of Personnel
2- DD/M&S
1. D/Pers
1- Applicant
OPF
1-ROB Soft File
1- ROB Roeder

OP/RAD/DEChickering: baw/3257 (29 June 1973)
مي

---
14-00000

SUMMARY OF AGENCY EMPLOYMENT

NAME: James P. O'Connel!
ADDRESS: 1333 Elsinore Avenue, McLean, Virginia
HOME TELEPHONE: 356-9666

Central Intelligence Agency December 1951 - June 1973
Employment consisted of:

Executive direction, supervision and acted as principal advisor
on physical, technical and overseas security matters. This entailed
global responsibilities in providing security support for all Agency
activities and operations.

Formulated and recommended security policies and procedures
on an Agency-wide basis along with providing advice and guidance
to senior Agency officials on a broad range of security matters.

Executive supervision of Agency investigative and operational
intelligence support, some of which are unique to foreign intelligence
operations. This required providing guidance and direction to such
activities and ensuring the investigative efforts or supportive functions
adequately fulfilled the needs of Agency-wide security.
:

Principal senior security liaison contact with other. U.S. Government
agencies and departments engaged in security and counterintelligence
efforts.
:

Senior Security Officer responsible for providing overall personnel,
physical, and technical security protection for Agency intelligence op-
erations, facilities, and personnel in the Far East area.

Senior Investigator responsible for planning and reviewing
investigative efforts in the tri-state area of Washington, D.C. and
in the support of foreign intelligence operations. This included
support to the Agency's employment and personnel security program
and required liaison with Federal, state, and local officials who
could assist in such activities.

---
14-00000
SECRET
(When Folled in)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
SERIAL NUMB
2. NAME / Last-First-Middie)
009784
O'CONNELL, J. P., JR.
3 MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
RETIREMENT (FOLUNTARY UNDER CIA RETIREMENT MONTH
& DISABILITY SYSTEM CANCELLATION N.S.C.A.

5. PUNDS XX
ORGANSZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
ντον TOV
6. PUNDS
OF TO V
DAY
YEAR
06 29 73
7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO.
CHARGEABLE
3271-0500-0000
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
AIR POPARED
20 June 1973
SCATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR
18 LEGAL AUTHORITY /Completed by Offia of
Feresnel)
Public Lau 88-643
Section 233
DD/M&S/OFFICE OF SECURITY
DD/PHYSICAL, TECHNICAL & OVERSEAS SECURITY
OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR
11 POSITION TITLE
SECURITY OFFICER
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB. ek.)
OS
13. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
1810.01
WASH., D. C.
12 POSITION NUMBER
0459
10. GRADE AND STEP
16/7
IC CAREER SERVICE DE ΑΠΟΝ
SS
17 SALARY OR RATE
S
36,000
16 REMARKS
Subject's last working day 18 29 June 1973.

Supergrade
cc/CSB - info
cc/payroll
18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED
18B. SIONATURE OF CARE SERANONG OFFICER
Walle
DATE SIGNED
Edward K. O'Malley, C/ASTS/PR 6/21/73
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
4 MOOTRS 25. GATE OF BIRTH
OFFICE CODING
22. STATION
CODE
NUMERIC
ALPHABETIC
23. INTEGREE
LODE
29. SPECIAL
REFERENCE
30
RETIREMENT DATA
1-80
31 SEPARATIO00
DAZA COO
COOF
2-ORGN
3-FICA
!
-NOWE
1
DATE
02/19/17
- 1
GRADE
DATE OF LEI
DA.
A
1
41 SECURITY
16 YR. FOD CATA
34
好。40. 34. SEX
A15. YR.
MO.
19 ACTION 20. EMPLOY: 21
CODE
100)
4510
128.
28.
DA.
17, LONG COMP. DATE
MO.
3-01
PREFERENCE
43 PREVIOUS LIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
W-9 PREVIG SERVICE
100% 1-17 SERVICE (LESS THAN & TEAMS)
TEARS)
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
42. LEAVE CA
(
2-10 PT
3-01
FORM FRECUND COUR
MOA
47. LONG
48. A AFFEWAL
DATE SIGNED
(4)

14-00000
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
SERIAL NUT
19 June 1973
DATE PREPARED
(Last-First-Maddle)
1.
OCONNELL JP JR
6.FUNDS X
3 NATURE PERSONNES ALTON
DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE
CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM 06
0
73
0
CATEGIRY OF ENFLOTMENT
REGULAR
7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO
(Completed by O
CLEMENT AUT
4 27.1 0500 PL 88-643 Sect.203
C
LooATION OF OFFICIAL STATOM
" 10 V
47099"
1 TO V
1.3
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDM&S/OFFICE OF SECURITY
11. PORTION TITLE
WASH., D. C.
12 PORTION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DEGIGNATION
24 73
700 V
00
GRADE AND STEP
17 DALARY OR BATE
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEAL (G), (1) 36200.0
14
1976A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTS OFFICIAL
DATEMNED
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
19-ACTION 20 M01 23.
OOT
23
INTEONF
T21
23 DATIN
27
BATE
94
31. DEPARATIONS
MO
DATS
A 24
143
-1.1.1.10177287111 31.0
13/1
33 SEGUE TH
10.4-7"
41
TE PREVO-413
2
W-1
31347718741122
33
ATEA
20
157
"
"
(
7: 1901
913
45 FORTION COMPROT CERTIFICATION
S'O DE TATE
5121
M
==End of OCR for page 12==