1104-10069-10359 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Current Address of Maurice Halperin

FROM: EXTENSION
Chief, Contact Division (Support) Stuntz 2268

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S RECEIVED FORWARDED
building) INITIALS

1. TFW
2. Joe
Kroger C2702
Holben, w/off-Thuy
R.H. 2708
3. TFW
4.
5.
6. Contact Division (support) Stuntz
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

FORM 610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
WH 729
DATE
31 DEC 62

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom.
Draw a line across column after each comment)

I am sending this to the following:
1) TFW
2) SR/CI
3) CI/LN
4) Security

Mayo Stuntz

Feb the

Cove wheet for

in WH729-

WH-729

#09254

14-00000

SECRET

Subject: Current Address of Maurice Halperin
004(S) 3246933
WSYRO-8060
27 December 1962

Preston E James
342 Huntington B. Crome Nal
Syracuse University

1. A source of this office has just advised us that he received a Christmas card (1962) from Maurice Halperin on which the return address was given as: "Apt C-2, Calle 12, no 103, Miramar, Habana, Cuba." The only message on the card was one of Christmas greetings. Halperin and our source have known each other for a number of years and they always exchange Christmas cards. This is the first one Halperin has sent with a Cuban address on it. The last time that our source saw Halperin was in Moscow when he (the former) was visiting in the USSR during August-September 1961 as part of an official US delegation.

2. In view of Halperin's past activities and associations, we are making this information known to you. Our source comments that Halperin always seems to show up wherever there is some sort of activity going on.

-end-

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and declassification
WH-729
