104-10291-10014 

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Date: January 10, 2019
Subject: O'Neal, Birch D.
File: Personnel Record 8A
SECRET

Official Personnel Folder

SECRET

Return to Records Center
Immediately After Use
Job 72-60 Box 26
315392

O’NEAL, Birch D. Terminated 68553.D

SECRET
(When Filled In)
Name (Last-First-Middle)

O’NEAL, BIRCH D.
CERTIFICATION OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
Attach to Official Personnel Folder
I hereby acknowledge the receipt of the following forms and/or information concerning my
separation from CIA as indicated by check mark:

1. Standard Form 8 (Notice to Federal Employee about Unemployment Compensation).

2. Standard Form 55 (Notice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees' Group
Life Insurance).

3. Standard Form 56 (Agency Certification of Insurance Status, Federal Employers’
Group Life Insurance Act of 1954).

4. Standard Form 2802 (Application for Refund of Retirement Deductions).

5. Form 2595 (Authorization for Disposition of Paychecks).

6. Applicable to returnee (resignee from overseas assignment).
   I have been advised of my right to have a medical examination before
  my separation from this Agency and of the importance of such a medical
  check to my health and well-being.
   Appointment arranged with Office of Medical Services.
   Appointment for Office of Medical Services examination declined.

7. I have been informed of "conflict of interests" policy of the Agency and
foresee no problem in this regard concerning my new employment.

8. Form 71 (Application for Leave).

9. CSC Pamphlet 51 (Re-employment Rights of Federal Employees Performing Armed
Forces Duty).

10. Instructions for returning to duty from Extended Leave or Active Military
Service.

Signature of Employee
Date Signed
Address (Street, City, State,
Zip Code)
Correspondence:
5704 Ridgefield Rd.
Overt
Chevy Chase, Md 20016
SECRET
Covert

SERIAL NUMBER
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
DATE PREPARED
19 February 1970

1. NAME (Last First Middle)
O'NEAL BIRCH D.

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

RETIREMENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER
MONTH DAY YEAR Regular
CIA RETIREMENT & DISABILITY SYSTEM.

6 FUNDS 7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND
MONTH DAY YEAR
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND PL. 83-643

LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of Personnel)

CHARGEABLE Sect. 233

89. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION:

DDP/CI Staff
Washington, D.C.
Special Investigation Group

11 POSITION TITLE: 12 POSITION NUMBER: 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION:
Ops Officer CH 0022 D

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, IB, etc) IS CUPATIONAL SERIES: 16 GRADE AND STEP: 17 SALARY OR RATE:

GS 0156.01 16 7 $30,054

18. REMARKS:
Last working day will be 27 February 1970.
Recommended for Agency Response Program.

1152 telecon -306, 2/25/70

cc: Finance and Security

18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL: DATE SIGNED
18B SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED
2-19-70 2/25

19 ACTION 20 EMPLOYEE 21 OFFICE CODING SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

45 10 MUNERIC ALPHABETIC CODI C NUMERIC ALPHABETIC NUMERIC ALPHABETIC 22 STATION 23 INTEGREE 24 HOQTRS 25 DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE
NTE EXPIRES C N
CODE
7
1.
1
MO
DA
28
29 SPECIAL
REFERENCE
MO
DA.
YR
MO
DA
1 060113
27 DATE OF LEE
DA.
MO.
YB.
7
30 RETIREMENT DATA 31 SEPARATION 32 CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA 33 SECURITY 34 SEX
CODE
S-NONE
1-SM
2.2010 341 4 73
CODE DATA
TYPE
CARF CARE
LODE
39407
EOD DATA
35 VET PREFERENCE
38 DATE OF GRADE 3417ATE 39 PROV TEMP FEL 40 SOCIAL SECURITY MO41-HITHI DECODE
4524

42 CAT
43 FEDERAL TAX DATA44 STATE TAT CATA48 OR APPROVAL
CATE APPROVED
1152
22-46
DATE
FOEM 2367/11
PREVIAS EDITION
SECSET
and a
a and CLASSIFICATION

SERET
hen filled las
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

058553
O’NEAL, SIRCH D.

DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE
CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

FUNDS

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/CI STAFF
11. POSITION TITLE

1. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

16

70
LECAL AUTHORITY
PL 88-643 Sect. 203

WASHINGTON, D. C.
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

17 SALARY OR RATE

18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED

148 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE ARPOVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED

FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
13-

8 SEP

Mr. Birch D. O'Neal
5704 Ridgefield Road
Washington, D. C. 20016

Dear Mr. O'Neal:

It is the practice of the Organization to follow up with
former employees six months after their retirement. We hope
by such inquiry to obtain information on what our retirees
are doing and where they are located, invite suggestions for
improving the retirement program and to learn if the Organi-
zation might be of some assistance on any post-retirement
matters.

We should like very much to hear from you on the above
points and on any other topics you think would be useful to
us.

For your convenience in replying, we have enclosed a
sheet somewhat akin to a form on which we have listed those
standard items of information we'd like to have on every re-
tiree. The remainder of the sheet, including the reverse
side, is for your comments and suggestions. We shall be
most appreciative of your fullest response to this inquiry.

Thank you very much for your cooperation.

Sincerely yours,
Carroll A. Duchay
Personnel Officer

Enclosures:
Questionnaire
Return Envelope

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - OPF
1 - RAD Subject's File

OP/RAD/FFAR/MLShobe:mlp (8 Sept. 1970)

MEMORANDUM FOR:
Chief, CI Support
SUBJECT: Resume of Employment - Birch D. O'Neal
12 February 1970

1. Attached is a proposed resume of my employment covering
the entire service to the U. S. Government.

2. I would propose to use this should the need arise.
However, I would not like to be restricted to the statements
therein. In 1968 I applied for admission to the Bar in the
District of Columbia and prepared a detailed response to
certain questions in the application. The information provided
at that time went on record and should the occasion arise, I
would like to be in a position to make the same statements.
I do not think that such a situation will occur, but if it
does, I would propose to support the attached resume with the
more detailed information attached hereto and which appeared
in that application.

Birch D. O'Neal

Attachments:
As stated.

RESUME
U. S. GOVERNMENT SERVICE
BIRCH D. O'NEAL

From January 10, 1938 on entering U. S. government service
as a Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to
February 28, 1970 (with exception of a few months in the fall
and winter of 1946-47) was employed by various Departments and
Agencies of the U. S. Government, including the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, U. S. Department of Justice, U. S. Department of
State, and Central Intelligence Agency. In this period of more
than 32 years steadily advanced in salary with commensurate
responsibilities from $3200 per annum to more than $30,000 per
annum while holding various titles including Special Agent,
Legal Attache, Civil Attache, and Foreign Affairs Officer.
More than 12 years of this service was performed while stationed
abroad or in travel status in many foreign countries of Latin
America, Europe and Africa.

While the entire service involved utilization of legal
training and conduct of investigations affecting the national
security interests of the United States, that from September

1942 to February 1970 (voluntary retirement) also involved
direct supervision of investigative and clerical assistants
(on occasions more than 50 employees and expenditure of
extensive funds). The service also involved extensive liaison
with foreign government and other U. S. government officials.
Liaison on occasions, both domestic and foreign, related to
matters of the highest sensitivity and importance and accordingly
was conducted at highest levels (Cabinet and sub-Cabinet).

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

February 1947 March 1947. In February 1947 I entered on
duty with what was known as the Central Intelligence Group,
2430 E Street, N.W., Washington, D. C., a government body
created by Executive Order which was a predecessor to the
Central Intelligence Agency. I was a legal liaison officer
with this group.

March 1947 - December 1949. During this period I was
detailed to the U. S. Department of State, 20th Street and
Virginia Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C., where I was assigned
to the U. S. Embassy, Caracas, Venezuela, as Attache. In that
capacity I prepared reports and advised and counselled the U.S.
Ambassador on matters of a legal and political nature. In
this work I employed legal knowledge, background and experience
as related to the laws of the United States and the Republic
of Venezuela.

January 1950 to December 1951 Central Intelligence
Agency, 2430 E Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. In this
period I was assigned to duties involving liaison on legal
matters with other departments of the U. S. Government in-
cluding the Department of Defense, Department of Justice
(Immigration and Naturalization Service and Federal Bureau
of Investigation) and the Department of State. Criteria
for the position included knowledge, application and
interpretation of U. S. and foreign laws. The establishment
of the position was at the instance of the General Counsel
of the Agency and my selection to the position was with his
concurrence. The assignment required close working coordination
and collaboration with the General Counsel of the Agency and
other governmental legal counsel. I discontinued this
particular work to enable me to again undertake further assign-
ment with the Department of State as a member of the Foreign
Service Staff Corps.

December 1951 April 1954 U. S. Department of State,
Foreign Service Staff, Washington, D. C. During this period
I served as Attache, Political Officer, American Embassy,
Guatemala City, Guatemala. In that capacity I gathered in-
formation concerning the legal system, laws, and enforcement
thereof and counselled and advised the U. S. Ambassador on
matters of a legal and political nature. In this work I
employed legal knowledge and experience as related to the
laws of the United States and the Republic of Guatemala.
I resigned from this position in Guatemala to return to the
U. S. for personal and family reasons.

April 1954 to Present Central Intelligence Agency,
2430 E Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. I have been employed
with this Agency since April 1954 as a Foreign Affairs Officer.
In that capacity I have had regular, almost daily contact and
liaison with the Department of Justice and Department of State
representatives on matters of a legal and political nature.
My duties involve the application of knowledge and experience
in the legal field, both foreign and domestic.

SECRET
:
8821 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Birch D. O'Neal

THROUGH : Head of D Career Service

SUBJECT : Notification of Approval of Request for
Voluntary Retirement

1. I am pleased to inform you that your request for voluntary
retirement under the CIA Retirement and Disability System has been
approved by the Director of Central Intelligence.

2. Your retirement will become effective 28 February 1970.
Your annuity will commence as of 1 March 1970 and is payable 1 April
1970. You may be assured that every effort will be made to expedite
delivery of your first check following completion of the administrative
processing required to effect your retirement.

3. You will receive a lump-sum payment for your accrued annual
leave up to 30 days or for whatever amount of leave credit you carried
over from the last calendar year if that amount is more than 30 days.

Robert S. Wattles
Director of Personnel

Distribution:
0 Addressee
1 D/Pers
1 OP Files
1 ROB Soft File
1 ROB Reader

OP/RAD/ROB/PJSeidel:jat/3257 (26 February 1970)

SECRET
390
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBER
NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)
058553 O'NEAL BIRCH D.
3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR
RETIREMENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER CIA LEGAL AUTHORITY
RETIREMENT & DISABILITY SYSTEM
Finance Amone Chargeable COC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHOSITY

0227 0170 (VVVV)
P.L. 88-643
SECT 233
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS LOCATION OFFICIAL STATION

POSITION TITLE
13 SERVICE DESIGNATION
OPS OFFICER CH D

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS IR CA J 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16 GRADE AND STEP
17. SALARY OR RATE
GS 0156.01 16 7 30054

18 REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

(4-51)

ITED BY THE STANDARD REOISTER COMPANY

:
83:

Mr. Birch D. O'Neal
5704 Ridgefield Road
Washington, D. C. 20016

Dear Birch:

As you reach the end of your active career
of Government service, I want to join your friends
and colleagues in wishing you continued success
and satisfaction in your retirement.

You have been privileged to face the challenge
of in portant responsibilities during your more than
thirty-one years of service to your country. The
success with which you have met this challenge should
be a source of lasting pride and satisfaction to you.

May I extend to you, personally and officially,
my sincere appreciation for the important work you
have done and my warmest hopes that you will find
full enjoyment in the years ahead.
Sincerely,

(s) Richard Helme
Richard Helms
Director

Good luck and best wishes !

Distribution:
0 - Addressee 70% Route 10
1 - DDCI
Originator:
- ER Director of Personnel
1 - C/EAB/OS
1 - D/Pers
1 - OPF
1 - ROB Soft File Concur: SIGNED
1 - ROB Reader C/EAB/OS

OP/RAD/ROB/PJSeidel:jat/3257 (6 March 1970)
14-00000

Executive Registry

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT : Request for Voluntary Retirement
Birch D. O'Neal

1. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your
approval; this recommendation is contained in paragraph 4.

2. Mr. Birch D. O'Neal, GS-16, Operations Officer, Counter
Intelligence Staff, Clandestine Service, das applied for voluntary
retirement under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-50),
to be effective 28 February 1970.

3. Mr. O'Neal has been designated a participant in the CIA
Retirement and Disability System and meets the technical require-
ments for voluntary retirement under the system. He is 56 years
old with over 31 years of Federal service. This service includes
over 22 years with the Agency of which 5 years were in qualifying
service. The Head of the Clandestine Service Career Service has
recommended that his application for voluntary retirement be ap-
proved. I endorse this recommendation.

4. It is recommended that you approve the voluntary retire-
ment of Mr. Birch D. O'Neal under the provisions of Headquarters
Regulation 20-50j.

Robert S. Wattles
Director of Personnel

The recommendation contained in paragraph 4 is approved:

/s/ Richard Helms

Director of Central Intelligence

27 1979

Date
SECRET

1 October 1968

Mr. C.F. Locke
Director
National Conference of Bar Examiners
155 East 60th Street
Chicago, Illinois 60637

Dear Mr. Locke:

With reference to your letter of 26 September 1968
concerning Mr. Birch Dilworth O'Neal, I have known Mr. O'Neal
since the late 1940s. In 1947 we were establishing formal liaison
with the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization and because
a thorough knowledge of the complex Immigration laws was
essential, I proposed that this position inust go to a lawyer.
Mr. O'Neal was selected and performed very well in that job,
which required constant liaison At this office in the legal
aspects.

In Mr. O'Neal's assignments since that time, I have
had occasion to work with him from time to time on a variety
of problems. I have found he has had a good grasp of the legal
aspects of those matters. From this long association my
conclusion is that Mr. O'Neal's moral character is good, he
has a sound background in the field of law, and is generally fit
for the practice of law.

Sincerely,
s/
Lawrence R. Houston
General Counsel

OGC--Kilgeb
OGC chrono
OGC subject BRADMISSIONS

14-00000
National Conference of Bar Examiners
AMERICAN BAR CENTER
1155 EAST 60TH STREET
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60637
C. RICHARD LOCKE, DIRECTOR

September 25, 1968

Director of Personnel
Central Intelligence Agency
2430 E Street N. W.
Washington, D. C.

Dear Sir:

Our Conference has, as one of its purposes, the work of investi-
gating the moral character and fitness for the practice of law
of those attorneys of one state who seek admission to the bar
of another. In this connection, we have been asked to report on
BIRCH DILWORTH O'NEAL, 55, a member of the bar of Georgia who is
applying for admission to the bar of the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia.

Mr. O'Neal states he has had the following employment with the
Central Intelligence Agency:

February 1947 to Central Intelligence Group Legal Liaison
March 1947 Officer
January 1950 to Legal employment with the CIA
December 1951
April 1954 to Foreign Affairs Officer
date

We wish to verify this information with you and to obtain as well
any information concerning his qualifications you may wish to
present to the admitting authority.

Can you also verify for us the following government employment as
given by Mr. O'Neal:

March 1947 to Department of State U. S. Embassy
December 1949 Caracas, Venezuela
December 1951 to Department of State U. S. Embassy
April 1954 Guatemala City,
Guatemala

Thank you for your assistance.

Sincerely,
C. R. Locke, Director

CRL:e0
All information solicited and received for maracter reports is confidential and restricted to officid by the proper admitting authority.

National Conference of Bar Examiners

AMERICAN BAR CENTER
1155 EAST BOTH STREET
CHICAGO 37, ILLINOIS

C. RICHARD LOCKE, DIRECTOR

October 16, 1968
:

Director of Personnel
Central Intelligence Agency
2430 E Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.

Dear Sir:
As our report must be filed with the admitting authority very
soon, we would greatly appreciate a reply to our inquiry

Dated: September 25, 1968
Concerning: BIRCH DILWORTH O'NEAL
Applicant for admission
to the bar of
U. S. Dist. Court for D.C.

For your convenience we enclose a copy of our previous letter.

Very truly yours,
C. Richard Locke, Director

Al
All information solicited and receives for character reports is confidential and restricted use by the proper admitting authority.

14-00000

NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF BAR EXAMINERS
AMERICAN DAR CENTER
1155 EAST BOTH STREET
CHICAGO ILLINOIS 60637
C RICHARD LOCKE DIRECTOR

September 25, 1968
Director of Personnel
Central intelligence Agency
B Street N. W.
Mashinston, B. C.

Dear Sir:
Our Conference has, as one of its purposes, the work of investi
gating the moral character and fitness for the practice of law
of those attorneys of one state who seek admission to the bar
of another. In this connection, we have heen asked to report on
BIRCH WILAORTH REAL, SS, a member of the tar of Georgia who is
applying for admission to the bar of the liited States Listrict
Court for the District of Columbia.
Mr. O veal states tu has had the following employment with the
Contrai Intelligence Agency:

February 1947 to Central Intelligence Group Legal Liaison
March 1947 Officer

January 1950 to Legal employment with the CIA
December 1951
April 1954 to Foreign Affairs Officer
Jate

We wish to verify this information with you and ot 20
as well
any information concerning his qualifications you may wish to
present to the anung authority.

Can you also verify for us the following government employent as
given by Mr. Oes:

March 1947 to Department of State U. S. rabassy
December 1949 Caracas, Venezuela
December 1951 to Department of State U. S. Embassy
April 1954 Guatemala City,
Guatemala

Thank you for your assistance.

Sincerely,
C. R. Locse, Director
CRL:e0

Dupe
:
14-00000

29 OCT 1968

Mr. C. Richard Locke, Director
National Conference of Bar Examiners
American Bar Center
1155 East 60th Street
Chicago, Illinois 60637

Dear Mr. Locke:

This is in reference to your letter requesting information
concerning Mr. Birch Dilworth O'Neal's employment and qualifica-
tions.

Mr. O'Neal has been employed by this Agency since 11 Febru-
ary 1947. On two occasions, March 1947 to December 1947 and
December 1951 to April 1954, he was detailed to the Department
of State.

During the more than 20 years this employee has been with
the Central Intelligence Agency, his performance has been con-
sistently high. Mr. O'Neal is one of our senior officials and
is highly regarded.

If I can be of further service to you, please do not
hesitate to get in touch with me.

Sincerely,

Robert S. Wattles
Director of Personnel

Distribution:
0 Addressee
X- Subject File
1 D/Pers Chrono
1 - EEAB

OP/EBAB/Post:dax
OD/Pers/RDKenne : mtw (28 Oct 68) Rewritten

14-00000

SECRET

11 September 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Lawrence R. Houston
General Counsel

SUBJECT: Application for Admission to the Bar of
the District of Columbia - Birch D. O'Neal.

1. You recall I spoke to you about my application for
admission to the Bar in the District of Columbia. The appli-
cation has been filed. You have been listed as one of three
persons connected with the U. S. Government in the Washington,
D. C., area with whom I am personally acquainted and who are
familiar with my work in the Department of Justice and other
Branches of the U. S. Government. The others are Mr. S. J.
Papich of the F.B.I. and Mr. Thomas C. Mann, former Foreign
Service Officer with whom I worked, Ambassador, and later
President of the Automobile Manufacturer's Association.

2. My application is being considered primarily on the
basis of education qualifications as provided in the rules
prior to admission to the Bar and reciprocity between the
states of Georgia and the District of Columbia on matters of
admission. They may not contact you but for your information
in case they do, attached are copies of Attachments B, D, E
and F of the application for admission which I filed in the
District recently. You will note that in the last paragraph
of Attachment B that services performed since April 1954 is
carried in the capacity of a Foreign Affairs Officer. This
had been agreed upon with Central Cover and primarily at their
instance and I did not think it would jeopardize my case if,
in fact, I could otherwise qualify under the experience pro-
visions of the District rules. In any event, the information
herein may be helpful to you in the event you are called upon
to respond to an inquiry.

3. I am sending copies of this and the attachments to
the Office of Security and Office of Personnel and I should
hope that any response from these various elements of the

SECRET
-2-

Agency at least would be coordinated with the other respective
offices to avoid any confusion and difficulties for me in the
course of the investigation which will be made to determine my
qualifications for admission to the Bar in the District of
Columbia.

BIRCH D. O'NEAL
CI/SIG

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee
① Director of Security
Director of Personnel

Attachments:
As stated.

SECRET

ATTACIENT B
The following information is provided in response to
Item , Page 3 of Applicant's questionnaire and affidavit:

July 1937 January 1938 Decatur County Courthouse,
Bainbridge, Georgia - with father, A. E. Omeal Sr.

I engaged in the general practice of law and served as assistant
to my father in case preparation. He was the
Solicitor (Prosecuting Attorney) for the City Court of Bainbridge
which had genera powers over civil cimes
and had the
power
County. My oldest
broter, Maston Emmett O'Neal Jr., presently Congressman from
the Second District of Georgia, was Solicitor Prosecutrix of that
Court I represented defendants in criminal cases in the
Superfor Court of Decatur Co (Albany Judicial Circuit)
which was and is a Court of general and imted jurisdiction.
Practice was both civil and criminal and included contracts,
torts, real and personal property law, title searches, etc.
I left this practice for the puprose of entering on duty with the
U. 5. Department of Justic on Lanuary 10, 1958 when I became
a Special Agent of the Federa Stream of Investigation.
