104-10071-10257
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING
TO
Chief, WH Division
COS, Mexico City
16-2
NO INDEXING REQUESTED
ONLY QUALIFIED DEER
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
INFO
FROM
SUBJ/ACT
COS, Guatemala City
COS, [San Jose] 16-15
Possible Contact
MICROFILM
Between Cuban Embassy, Mexico City and FAR.

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
FYI

1. During a recent training period on interrogation with
a HUGLIB Case Officer, the point of getting information from
suspects on their international contacts or information that
might help other services was stressed. Apparently, as a result,
the HUGLIB Case Officer dug into his notes on the interrogation
of Ricardo Ismael VALLECILLO Perez, Guatemalan FAR member, and
came up with the following information which he thought WOFIRM
might want to pass to the Mexican Service.

2. VALLECILLOS stated (the interrogation took place in
December, 1967) that FAR was awaiting the arrival of new type
machine-pistol called the Red Star (Estrella Roja) from Cuba.
He stated that it was a 28 shot weapon and would be issued to
commanders of Guerrilla Groups to replace the present Browning
semi-autos. He then added that the individuals in charge of
shipping weapons and money to the FAR were two officials of the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. Their names are Alfredo MIRAMBAL
Diaz and Adelo (or Abeldo) CALOME Ibarra. The HUGLIB) officer
stated that VALLECILLOS blurted this information out in reply
to a sarcastic remark made by the Case Officer about the
efficacy of the FAR gun-running mechanism.

3. HUGLIB-10 has given this permission to pass this infor-
mation to the Mexican Service if it is considered of any value
by WOFIRM.

Distribution:
2 - C/WHD
2 - Mexico City
2 - Guatemala City
2 - Files

GARDALPHE/gok
10 May 68
Nea E. Corrigan

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE

HRSA-9022
10 May 1968
CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER

SECRET
18-9-10
