104-10183-10267 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Background Use Only

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE OUTING
SECRET
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: [redacted]
ACTION: S/I
INFO: DOP, WH/Cia/P Ops, city, F/IR

SECRET 3422232
DER CITE TEGU 5633
DYBOUR PERUMEN ANIUG
REF: TEGU 5625 [redacted]
FOLLOWING FROM LANGOSCH:

1. PESVING CHIEF AND LANGOSCH HAD PRIVATE MEET MORNING
08, 06
A SEPT WITH CHIEF OF STATE COL. OSWALDO LOPEZ. LANGOSCH BRIEFED
ON DGI OPS AND ORGANIZATION, INCLUDING INFO ON MARIO SOSA MOLINA
MAGLIO MORENO ESPITAL, LUIS BANECAS and ANTONIO FERNANDEZ IZA (FIRLE)
WHO USES HONDURAN DOCS IN NAME MIGUEL MANCIA MADRID. ALSO
FURNISHED RECENT TRAVEL LISTS AND COPY OF PGI REQUIREMENTS ON

2. LOPEZ EXHIBITED KEEN INTEREST, REVIEWED ALL NAMES, SAID
HE KNEW SOME PERSONALLY INCLUDING SOSA, PROMISED PROVIDE ALL
POSSIBLE INFO ON ALL HONDURANS THROUGH PASSING CHIEF AND EXPRESSED
WILLINGNESS LEND FULL COOPERATION. SAID GOVT HAS ABOUT 25 COMMIES
UNDER ARREST AND HAS HAD TO RELEASE OTHERS FOR LACK OF EV IDENCE BUT

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Py No.

11/BR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET  PAGE
CAPABLE OF MAKING ARRESTS OF PEOPLE LIKE SOSA IF THEY ENTER COUNTRY
AND WILLING MAKE THEM AVAILABLE TO COMOKE, WHENEVER LOPEZ DECIDED
LACK OF SECURITY AND COMPETENCE IN HIS GOVT STATING:
A. HE MUST KEEP MATERIAL FURNISHED IN PERSONAL POSSESSION
OR OWN HOME BECAUSE OFFICE IS NOT SECURE.

B. MOST PEOPLE IN GOVT INCLUDING THOSE IN INTEL AND POLICE
ARE NOT SECURE EITHER BECAUSE SUSCEPTIBLE TO BRIEFS OR
NOT ABLE SAFEGUARD ANY CONFIDENCES.

C. NOBODY IN GOVT IS TRAINED TO COPE WITH DGI OPS.

D. GENERALLY GOVT PERSONNEL FAR LESS ASTUTE THAN SOSA AND
OTHER COMMIES.

3. LOPEZ MENTIONED FELIX OYUELA, CHIEF ARMY INVESTIGATOR,
AS ONLY TRUSTED AND REASONABLY COMPETENT PERSON BUT ADDED OYUELA
TOO BURDENED WITH OTHER DUTIES. THEREFORE, SEEK SUITABLE CANDIDATE
WHOM LOPEZ WILL PROPOSE TO PESVING CHIEF SO SUCH PERSON
COULD BE TRAINED AND DEVOTE TIME TO SUBVERSIVE AND ESPIONAGE
MATTERS.
SECRET
• CONCERNED LANCOSCH BRIEFING ON PGI

SECRET

11/BR
