104-10188-10003
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

John M. Whitten:ja
CWH/3
5613
28 June 1963
MEXICO CITY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
[ ] INDEX
[ ] NO INDEX
[ ] LEIN CS FILE NO.
ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
[ ] DEFERRED
[R] ROUTINE

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, S/C
TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 50937
50937
LIFEAT

REP MEXI 5162 (IN 68160)*

REF MISTAKENLY SLUGGED TYPIC. TO WHAT EXTENT HAVE TAPES BEEN TRANSCRIBED?

IF NOT TRANSCRIBED, CAS MEXI DO IT? IF TRANSCRIBED, ERASE TAPES. IF NOT AND

MEXI CANNOT HANDLE, POUCH TO DIR. ADVISE.

END OF HIMESSAGE

WH CMT: #Mexd querien Eqs as to its desire have pouched tapes LIFSAT ESLARD-1
coverage for period resided Hotel Maria Angelos.

W Hood WH/COPS 
c. Kemu
C/WHD JON. WHITTEN
6/28/63
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
GROUP I
Excludee from automatic
declasscation
SEGRET
REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na: 1

14-0000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE liceLIFEAT Opr

SECRET 12-62

ROUTING
ORIG: JUWKINS:dd
UNIT: WH/3/MEXICO [ ] INDEX 1 4
EXT 5940 [ ] NO INDEX 2 5
DATE: 22 APRIL 1963 [ ] FILE IN CS FILE NO. 3 6
25APR 63 18 582
TO: CXICO CITY
[ ] DEFERRED
FROM: DIRECTOR [ ] CEN
CONF: 8 [R] ROUTINE

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/RA, FI, TSD 5, s/c
TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 35066

REF: MEXI 4201 (IN 19807)*

1. HQS APPROVES LOAN OF ONE STERILE SPARE 9-10 DIAL PULSE RECORDER
TO DURKIN.

2. HQS URGES CLOSE SUPPORT TREASURY/NARCOTICS INVESTIGATIONS. MEXI
HAY PROVIDE DURKIN WITH OCCASIONAL LIFEAT COVERAGE PROVIDED NO LIFEAT TAKE
GIVEN TO MEXICANS.

END OF MESSAGE

WE COMEENT: William J. Durkin, Treasury rep assigned to Mexico investigating
narcotics traffic, approached Station re dial recorder for phone
tap on Mexican target.

TSD BRUCE LA ROSE (BY PHONE)

CI/OPS FRANK HUGHES F.10. Hughes

WH/COPO

CI/R&A/TC

AED
JOHN N. WHITTEN
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING 6/28/63
OFFICER
SECRET GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na:

14-00000
SFCAFF

1 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: MMI/Personnel

SUBJECT: Recruitment of a Retired CIA or Military
Officer for Contract Status in Mexico.

1. Mexico City needs a replacement in September or
October 1963 to work on a technical operation. The Station
does not want a staff employee, but a Contract Agent.

2. The Contract Agont would need the following
requirements:

a. Must be retired, and move permanently
to Mexico under cover of a retired U. S. citizen,
with the appropriate guaranteed income required
under Kexican law. ($320 for husband and wifebr mi)

b. Must have technical training which would
enable him to work on a technical operation,
possibly involving the care and upkeep of
recorders, etc.

c. Must have a working knowledge of Spanish,
or the ability to acquire this fluency prior to
arrival in Mexico.

d. It will be necessary for the employee to
work with people, make early and late meetings,
and to spend a good deal of time driving around
town. Therefore, the candidate must drive a car
and be physically fit to work long hours.

3. It is requested that information on any candidates
be furnished H/3/MEXICO or C/ait/3 for consideration.

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. and 1-AESUPPORT
John H. hitten
C/RH/3

14-00000

SPATCH
CLASSFUCATION

SEGRET
Chief of Station, Hexico City

FROM
: Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
LIFEAT Security

FROCESSING
ATRIA
POSED
CAS ATE DEC
ARTEAT

HEF HAMA 20305, 3 December 1962

1. Reference problem was discussed by KURIA with David N. WILSTED,
during the latter's TDI at Headquarters in early December 1962.

2. KURIOT recommends the following solution and has furnished the
attached material for delivery to ILSTED for his use:

a. The terminal identification system consists of two fluids.
Vial "A" is collodion in which is mixed a small amount of phenolphthalein
and is intended to be used by the person who originally connects the wires.
Generously daubed on the end of the screw, this solution dries almost
immediately in a water repellont, invisible coating.

b. The second vial "B" contains household ammonia. If the bauber
in this bottle is drawn down the row of terminals in the connection box,
the tip of any screw which was previously treated with the phenolphthalein
will immediately turn a dark red color and then will vanish after a minute.
The ammonia can be reapplied and this reaction will repeat itself a couple
of times before more phenolphthalein has to be reapplied.

END OF ULSPATCH

Attachment:
1 box with two vials of liquid (U/S/C)

Distribution:
Cal - COS, Mexico City w/att (USC)

HOUTING INITIAL
1- Chrono
ச
RUSD/AC3/Mr. McBee
PID/MIS

RIDAYS
RIDAFI
C/WH13
CROSS REFERENCE TO
SECRE

OFFICE
CLASSIFICATION
50-6-32/3
DATE TYPED

7 January 63
DATE DISPATCHED

3
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HM-11200
HEADQUARTERS FLE NUMBER
30-6-32/3
ORIGINATING
OFFER
TYPIST
WH/3/Mexico Bustréstrir
OFFICE SYMBA
CATE
TSD/AOB
COORDINATING
OFFICES NAME
Mr. McBee (draft)
RELEASING
D

CFICE SOME
C/WHD
BA
دور
J. C. King

DISPATCH
14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SEGRETARYBAT

TO
INFO.
Chief, WH:
Chief, Task Force W Attn: Willard N.AUMAN
Chief, KUDESK

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
GYROSE/Jose Ordoqui
ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES
PRO

POSED
PROCESSING

ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDERING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED

VEADONHARTERS DESA

CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

1. Forwarded herewith are the following items pertaining to Subject:

a. LIFEAT references;

b. Salient reports from other agent sources;

c. References to close contacts of Subject;

d. Exemplars of various types of Mexican police agent reporting;

e. Roughed-out drafts of police agent reporting. These have been
viewed and tentatively approved by COS, Mexico. Copies have been
retained at the Station.

2. Station Mexico is submitting separately its proposals on the
technical and operational aspects of this operation.

Distribution:
2- TFW w/att
1-C/WH w/o att
1- Chief, KUDESK w/o att
2- Files

CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION
Willard C. Curtis

SECRET/RYDAT
1
DATE TYPED
CATE DISPATCHED
2. Dec. 1962 28 Dec. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-20425

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
ACCOM

PLISHED

1500000
INFO
DISPATCH
Chief, KURIOT
Chief, WH Division

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
CLASSINAIRN
SECRET
PNO

FOSED
MA

XX
PROCESSING
ACTAN

NO INDELING RED
ONE QUALIFIED

MEADQUARTERS lesa

CAR RIDGE INCERING
ABSTRACT
MIC
について
LIFEAT Security
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action: See below.

1. The purpose of this dispatch is to request Headquarters' assistance
In a problem involving clandestine markings for terminals in a telephone cable
cross box,

2. Specifically, it is destred to have the capability of recognizing which
cable terminals in a box are being used for telephone tapping without having any
markings apparent to unauthorized persons, This system is needed for use in
the event that taps must be disconnected quickly under the threat of a possible
security problem,

3. The tap connections are made by LIFEAT telephone company per-
sonnel and the terminals could be marked by them at the time the tap is made,
The connections sometimes have to be removed by another person who is not
familiar with the commections.

4. It is felt that a quick drying, transparent glue or lacquer that would
fluoresce brightly under UV illumination would be appropriate. A material that
could be removed later by wiping or chipping it away would be desirable but this
characteristic is not vital,

5. The system must be usable in open shade, although some additional
shade might be had by partially closing the doors of the box, and the light source
must be portable and if possible have the appearance of an ordinary flashlight.
The light source can be brought within two inches of the terminals,

50-6-32/3
DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED
(Continued)
ES COPY
3 Dec. 1962

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-20305

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION

SECRET
50-6-32/3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET
ΗΜΜΑ-20305

6. This sytem is needed as soon as possible for use during December
1962 and January 1963. Therefore, Headquarters early assistance or recom-
mendation would be greatly appreciated,

Distribution:
12 C/KURIOT
1- C/WHD
3- Files

Millard Curtos
Wiffard C. CURTIS

50-6-32/3
PAGE NO
TWO
1084
USE PREVIOUS LOTION

CLASSIFICATION
135 530
REPLACES FORMS
51 28-51-294 AND $1.29
WHICH ARE O
CONTINUED

14-00000

10
NU
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, W1H Division

CUISSELATAN
SECRET
DESENSITIZED
per CSN 43-43

Chief of Station, Mexico City
LIFEAT Progress Report for October 1962
ACTION REQUIRED FEUERENCES
PROCESSING

ACTION
MARKED FOR INDELING
NO INCY RING REQUIRED
CALY QUALIFIED

MADQUARTERS DESA

CAN JUDE INEERING
ABSTRACT
C

Ref: Α. ΗΜΜΑ-20156
B. MEXI 2384

ACCOM
PLIGHED
Al
AS
IN
PS
BX
DESP
FI
1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSFHB-н
52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1).

A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Soviet Daring the reporting period, LIFEAT coverage
of Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV provided an important and valuable check con-
firming the reporting of a number of KUBARK controlled double agents targeted
against this Soviet officer. Also, coverage of the Soviet Bulletin Office, al-
though not considered vital, does complete Station coverage of the Soviet
target and does provide daily information on the activities and contacts of the
Bulletin Office personnel.

(2) LIFEAT/Polish LIFEAT continued to provide vital Information
concerning the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation with coverage of both Individuals
and their daily activities.

(3) LIFEAT/Yugoslav Besides the usual coverage of day-to-day
activities of the official installation, LIFEAT leads have indicated the possi-
bility of a successful recruitment of a Mexican employee of that installation,
LIFEAT information will become even more valuable for continuing assess-
ment of the potential agent and forming of a plan for approach to the Mexican
In question.

(4) LIFEAT/Communist Party Coverage in this area gave Station
its first information concerning the second arrest of LINLUCK, as well as
providing sonie information on important persons in the Mexican Communist
movement.

Remove frem Project:
(Continued)
JOB
Box:
RECORD COPY
CLASSPATHW

SECRET/
DATE TYPED
28 Νον. 1962

DATE DISPATCHED
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΙΜΑ-20261

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
50-6-32/3

14-00000

FORM
13:57 530
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET
HMMA-20261

(5) LIFEAT/Exile LIFEAT provides continuing coverage of the
daily activities and contacts of juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo, Although most
of the leads gathered will depend on future exploitation, one contact with an
ODYOKE official was noted by LIFEAT (see reference b).

(6). LIFEAT/Cuban Of late, much of the emphasis of the LIFEAT
operation has been directed toward support of Station operations in this area,
Coverage included monitoring of the activities of AMSTET-1 for the interested
Case Officer. This information provided daily leads for the Case Officer in
his contacts with AMSTET-1. LIFEAT also covered three lines in support
of the AMSTRUT operation. Of this support the interested Case Officer has
noted LIFEAT provided very valuable coverage of the important AMSTRUT
operation during October. The coverage gave valuable operational leads
_ and resolved what would otherwise have been areas of uncertainty or
groundless suspicion. This allowed the case officers to move with more
certainty in developing the operation than would otherwise have been prudently
possible. It is noted that LIFEAT's continuing coverage is proving to be most
helpful.

(7) LIFEAT/American Communists LIFEAT continued to provlie
information of interest to ODENVY. Travel and contacts of the ACGM are
particularly worthwhile.

(8) LIFEAT/Miscellaneous LIFEAT continued its coverage of
former Station asset LIVESTOCK-2. This was in keeping with Station's
policy of making perlodic checks of the activities of former, potentially
dangerous agents.

It should be noted that It is the Station's opinion that LIFEAT'S
excellent overall service, plus its ability to provide unilateral coverage of
targets of opportunity on short notice (sometimes on as little as two hours
notice), make LIFEAT a dependable daily contributor to the fulfilling of the
Station's mission,

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE

No change from previous report.

C. LIAISON

During the month of October the two playback recorders used by
the ODENVY processor broke down. These were repaired by the LIFEAT
technician, David M. WILSTED, ODENVY continued to process take from
the LIFEAT/American Communists in Mexico lines,

:
D. SECURITY

There have been no known adverse security incidents effecting the
LIFEAT operation during the reporting period. LIFEAT meeting sites con-
tinue to be changed periodically. The fourteen regular and six alternate
sites used for daily contact between the Station Case Officer and WILSTED
and Wayne C. DRABAND are considered adequate. Numerous meeting sites
are used for contacts between WILSTED/DRABAND and the basehouse keepers.

E. TECHNICAL.

Audio and dial tape recorders ordered by the Station in support of the
LIFEAT operation began to arrive at the end of October. These were placed
in immediate service. It is noted that the automatic tape stop on the new
model Revere audio recorder has thus far proven to be of no use to the operation
USE FEETOUS LOTION

ST24 51 284 A:D 20
ALCASQUE
CLASSICATION
SECRET
XXONTINUED
PAGE NO
TWO

14-00000

FORM
13:57 530
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET,
MOLAND N
HMMA-20261

and on occaston has caused some minor problems. It is believed that these
problems are temporary and will be eliminated when WILSTED has time to
by-pass this cut off switch.

The new Annex VI (see reference A) was placed in full operation
on 23 October and presently provides coverage of four target lines,

F. COVERAGE
1
During the month of October 1962, LIFEAT covered a total of 25
target lines. Coverage by target was as follows:

1. Soviet Bulletin Office
2. Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV
3. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4. and 5. Polish Embassy (two lines)
6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. Yugoslav Embassy (five lines)
11, 12, and 13 BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation
14. Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
15. Peter WATKINS
16. AMSTET-1
17, and 18. AMSTRUT operation
19. Psychiatrist attending AMSTRUT-2
20. Carlos ILLESCAS
21. Suspected PCM safehouse
22. LIVESTOCK-2
23. Albert (Margaret) MALTZ
24. Charles SMOLIKOFF (aka SMALL)
25. Noah SEBORER

G. PERSONNEL

LIEMBRACE-8 was reintroduced to LIFEAT in order that he may brush
up on its daily operation, LIEMBRACE-S will temporarily replace David M.
WILSTED as LIFEAT technician during the latter's home leave December 1962
and January 1963.

Steps were Initiated to amend the clearance of LIEMPTY-19 for
work as a part time LIFEAT processor/translator.

2. During the reporting period, LIFEAT operation provided a total
of 62 reels of raw take from ACGM lines to local ODENVY for their processing.
In addition, a number of memos were prepared by the Station for passing to
local ODACID and ODENVY based wholly or in part on LIFEAT provided
material.

Willard (Curtis
Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
3-C/WHD
2- Files
USE PRE OUS EDTION

PLACES FO
CLASSICA
SECRET C
PAGE NO
THREE
CONTINUED

14-000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET
ΗΜΜΑ-20156
1887

2. Daring the month of September 1962. LIFEAT. operation provided
a total of 54 reels of raw take from the ACGM lines to the local ODENVY
office for their processing. In addition, a number of memos were prepared
by the Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based wholly or in
part on LIFEAT provided material.

Villard Curt's

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
-WHD
2- Files

50-6-32/3
PAGE NO
THREE
CLASSIFICATION
FORM
USE
1530
こ

SECRE