14-00000
104-10164-10060	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIETED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF WERBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUNE:	BISCH AVILA, ORLANDO
	201-297272
	VCL.J

INCLUSIVE DATES: 
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 
ROON: 
DELETIONS, IF ANY: 	THIRD ARENCY MATERAL

DATE	DATE 
RECEIVED RETURNED
1040
LAOR 78 8/1/78 BETSY PALMER
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Betry Farmu

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
-APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993-
<CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAM

14-00000
US AIR FORCE CABLE
FROM JCS
DATE: 10 JANUARY 1978
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
(VENEZUELAN)
SUBJECT: VEN AIRCRAFT SECURITY THREAT EXPANDS
FILE NO: MSGNO 46 (MT.IR)

17:0

14-00000
14
FBI CABLES
FROM DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE 8 DECEMBER 1977
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY
ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)

FROM DIRECTOR FBI
DATE: 6 DECEMBER 1977
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: DOORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY
ORGANIZATIONS

14-00000
STATE CABLES
DATE: 1 DECEMBER 1977 FM UNINT HAVANA
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: VISAS FOR WIFE AND CHILD OF O. BOSCH

DATE: 26 NOVEMBER 1977
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: WIFE AND CHILD OF ORLANDO BOSCH APFLY
FOR VISAS

14-00000
FBT CABLE
FROM DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 16 JULY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF CUBA (FLNC)
FBJ.
P

14-00000
STATE CABLES
FROM ANEMBASSY KINGSTON 2883
DATE: 13 JULY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIAMI TERRORISTS CLAIM BOMB BLAST

FROM AMEMBASSY BRIDGETOWN 1281
DATE: 12 JULY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: BOMB BLAST IN BRIDGETOWN

FROM AMEMBASSY KINGSTON 2852
DATE: 12 JULY 1976
SUBJECT: BOMB BLAST AT AIRPORT
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
11

14-00000
FRI DOCUMENTS
DATE: 24 JUNE 1976 CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF CUBA (FLNC)

DATE: 24 JUNE 1976 (CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF CUBA (FLNC)

DATE: 7 JUNE 1976
:
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (AC)
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (SAN JUAN)

14-00000
85/20/03
(100) 0201001129
103/07
100025222
(100) 02984
TOR: 1010008 MAR 0
SECRET

18.2......
JATEL
90
1092522?
CARS 35705

CITE CARACAS 35705 (LADENBURG ACTING)
TOPIR D6-315/03752-78
HVC-7800

YOU DIRECTOR INFO BRASILIA RIO DE JANEIRO, LAGDOS, MONROVIA,
PANAMA CITY, MILDIST.

NINTEL INTEL KETONE
SUPADATAS SOURCES WKRAPIERSNAPIEROS FROM SUBJECT CARACAS
33185, SOURCE PARA 3 FIELD COMMENT WKDIET/HKDIET-S.
NOT FOR LIAISON, OD OBJECTIVE: J.I. NO KINDEX.
FILES DEFERRED. MELOISTS PLEASE PASS ALL AFTER FILED
10 CINCO (J-2) ONLY). CL BV 037171.

PILED: 1615152 xxxxxx

16 203
82.j
PAI
CRU
TRAVEL PASCRAN
ACT

RECORD COPY
BECRET
211-399292
16 Mau?!

14-00000,
L
..:
Intelligence Informatium Cable

Fustres Dost manat of ALARC to
CONTROLS STATED
PO
ΕΣΤΙΕΣ
36025222
PALE 61 of 062.

STATE/INR JC8/2014) (14 SSD F
(81/166) 508 54 1840 ve 10000 COPIES TOU
--
TRES IS AN INFORMATION REPORT MOT
REPORT CLASS 8. & C A C 1000CL-40F800 teac

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA
0
CITE TOFER 08-315/03752-78
blot 10 MAR 70
SUBJECT: STATUS OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH

POIS MARCH 1978)
SOURCES A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH GOOD CONTACTS: ANONG
VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS, HIS REPORTING IS
OF GENERALLY RELIABLE.
:
1. ON 8 MARCH 1978 FRANCISCO LEANDRO MORA,
LAWYER FOR CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO & 0 && M. SAID THAT
A GROUP OF BOSCH'S CUBAN EXILE FOLLOWERS PLANNED TO MEET IN
THE CARACAS HILTON HOTEL IN CARACAS, VENEZUELAS ON THE EVENING
OF 1 APRIL 1976. TO ATTEND THIS MEETING, LEANDRO BAID, ONE
INDIVIDUAL HOLD BE COMING FROM MIANI, FLORIDA, AND ONE PROM
PUERTO RICO. REPRESENTATIVES FROM VENZUELA WOULD ALSO DE
ATTENDING. (SOURCE COMMENTS THE REASON FOR THE MEETING IS
NOT KNOWN.)
:
2. LEARDRO ASSURED BOCH THAT HE FELT THAT THE VENE-
ZUELAN GOVERNMENT WOULD SOON MOVE ON BRINGING BOSCH TO TRAIL
AND THAT HE HOPED TO GET A FIRM DECISION BY EARLY APRIL.
IN ADDITION,LEANDRO TOLD BOSCH THAT THE EXILE COMMUNITY 18
211.211212

1'4-00000
06STICE
345625222
103020-3:5/43758-18
210 40 200 3970
Staff!SCE SEALES ANTIDOS LOUDLOED

SENDING FISCAL AID TO 80'S FAMILY.
3. 808cm's Puysical coNDITION IS MUCH IMPROVED SINCE
ME ABANDONED HIS GER stage and ACCEPTED MEDICAL ATTENTION,
EFIELD COMMENT
ALL BELIABLE SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY
REPORTED THAT HILE BOSCH 18 404 EXPECTED TO RECOVER, HIS
GENERAL PHYSICAL CONDITION IS POOR, BOSCH GAVE UP HIS-STRIKE
WHEN CUBAN EXILE LEADERS CONVINCED HIM. THAT PRESIDENT CARLOS
ANDRES PEREZ HAD AGREED TO EXPEDITE HIS CASE, THE
EXILES, HOWEVER, EXAGGERATED PEREZ' COMMENTS SO AS TO GET
BOSCH TO GIVE UP HIS STRIKE. PEREZ MERELY PROMISED THE EXILES
THAT HE WOULD TRY TO DETERMINE WHAT COULD BE DONE TO SPEED UP
THE COURT.)
4. ACOI VENEZUELA, CARACAS 15 MARCH 1978) FIELD NO...
HVC-7866.

S. FIELD DISSEM, EMBASSY, FBI, SECRET SERVICE AT CARACASS
SENT TO BRASILIA, RIO DE JANEIRO, LAGSO, MONROVIA, USCINCSO
(J-2 ONLY), PANAMA CITY.
::
REPORT CLASS SECRET -WARNINING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOEIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGD8-2..
FCRET
Q
L
:

14-00000
L
•
1208180129
LOID. Dシナシーン。こち/16105, (30/4)
.....29
Este camaCAS 35420
:
Strat
IP
۲۰۰ 3970 100 در
37842 840 AG) 301 089-13101/1310 32008 dong
TE

198299000
DIRECTON ONLY). NOT FOR LIAISON. OD OBJECTIVES
J.I. NO INDEX. FILE DEFERRED. ALL AFTER FILED
ANVIE, CL BY 035133.
Xxxxxx Zesto 102114
(23)
RECORD COPY
SECRET
901-199892
Year 78
7
:
:

14-00000
L
C
SEDE
Intelligence Information. Cable : 200000
FANGE DEL
METON SALECTORAGE OD OF 008
CONTROLS STATED AT SONG AND END OF BEFOR

STATE/INO Jes/mero43 214/mec 88/19 Fel
(84/146) Sas ass Tafas 800 (mRD COPIES TOI
astis Fac AMSITON OCR SECUR DOS),
----
TORS 5 AN FORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENC
REPORT CLASS SECRE 1000INTELINOFORMONOCONTRACT
CITE TOFER 08-315/01
DISTON FER 70
C
C
C
C
COUNTRY
VENEZUELA/CUBA
SUBJECT OPOSSIBLE RELEASE OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO ROSCH

(DOIS LATE JANUARY 1976)
SOURCES A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHOSE ACTIVITIES BRING HIM
INTO CLOSE CONTACT WITH VARIOUS GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS,
HE IS A FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE.
1. IN LATE JANUARY 1976 AN ADVIRER TO VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT
CARLOS ANDRES PERE Z SAID THAT PEREZ IS CURRENTLY CONSIDERING
GIVING FINANCIAL AID TO CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH
IN RETURN. FOR BOSCH'S AGREEMENT NOT TO MOLEST VENEZUELAN PER-
SONNEL OR FACILITIES. BOSCH, WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DENTENTION
IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A
CUBANA AIRLINER, WILL BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL SOON. THE ADVISER
SAID. HE ADMITTED. HOWEVER, THAT THERE IS NO CHANCE OF GETTING
A LEGAL CONVICTION AGAINST BOSCH..
:
2. PRESIDENT PEREZ IS CURRENTLY CONSIDERING GIVING
BOSCH'S WIFE BS. 10.000 (U.S. $2,300) A MONTH. UPON BOSCH B
RELEASE FROM PRISON PEREZ PLANS TO GIVE HIM U.S. $50.000 ΩΝ
THE CONDITION THAT HE NOT RETURN TO VENEZUELA AND THAT THE
SECRET

14-00000
L
SECRET
ARNING NOTICE
IN 0200048
TOFIR 06-315/01000-78
PAGE 002 CF 002
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

FURTHER CISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT
CUBAN EXILE GROUPS HE LEADS NOT ATTACK VENEZUELAN FACILITIES.
3. ACOS VENEZUELA. CARACAS (2 FEBRUARY 1978) FIELD NO.
MVC-7649
:
4. FILED DISSEM: EMBASSY. PAS AT ACARACAS.
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOVLED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGUS-г.
CSAMAN
さら
1881078
BECART
איזי
HANAI

14-00000
55/21/09
ACTIONS L4-13 (111
ODPD-D. PCS/16105,
76 0350018
SECRET
23
......
INTEL
INFOI FILE. VR. DDD-0, C6-8, EPS/EG-2, 110. 1088-8.
(3210)
ய
PAGE 001 OF 201
FOR: 2310402 FER 78
IN 0350018
CARA 35501

TOFIR DO.
MVC-7853
...... 2310812 FED TO INTEL
CITE CARACAS 35591
TOE DINECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.
UNINTEL INTEL AMSTONE
SUPDATAS SOURCES WKDIET/WKDIETOS DIRECTLY, NOT FOR LIAISON,
OD OBJECTIVES J.I. NO INDEX. FILE DEFERRED.
CLODY 035133.
FILEDI
2310212
xxxxx
1.
2. DC
6.
7.012
8..0/
9.
10. 0/WILA
MRT
L
Estella Corbet
P/EIS
DW-7
201-299292
BECRET Filo! Orlando BOSCH

14-00000
L
OPESA NON
SECRET
BAUTINE
Intelligence Information Cable 88350012
FURTHER DESSERTION AND USE OF THE FORMATION SURECT TO PAGE 001 OF COS
-
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND NO PORT
STATE/ING JCB/MC(DIA) CIA/NMCC SS/ID Fat.
(ST/746) SOS ASA TREAS SOO (MARD COPIES TO
NSC/S NFAC UHSITAN OCR SECUR DDAS.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
REPORT CLASS SECRETO-UNINTEL NORDRN-NOCONTRACT
COUNTRYS VENEZUELA CUBA
CITE TOFER 08-315/02582-7-
DIST 23 FED 78
SUBJECTS FEARS THAT THE DEATH OF ORLANDO BOSCH AS A RESULT
OF A MUNGER STRIKE MAY BRING ABOUT REPRISALS
(DOI: 20-21 FEBRUARY 1978)
SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHO MAINTAINS CONTACTS WITH
CUBAN EXILES. HIS REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE,

1. BOTH THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA ARE CONCERNED THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER
ORLANDO BOSCH MAY DIE AS A RESULT OF HIS CURRENT HUNGER
STRIKE. FURTHERMORE. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT FEARS. THAT
SHOULD BOSCH DIE. CUBAN EXILE GROUPS WILL STEP UP THEIR ATTACKS
ON VENEZUELAN FACILITIES. THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY, IN TURN.
PEARS THAT EXILE ATTACKS ON THE VENEZUELANS WOULD BRING ABOUT
FURTHER. VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT REPRISALS AGAINST THE EXILE COM
MUNITY. (FIELD COMMENT: BOSCH HAS BEEN IMPRISONED IN VENEZUELA
SINCE OCTOBER 1976 IN CONNECTION WITH THE BOMBING OF A CUBANA.
AIRLINER. HE. AND THE OTHER INDIVIDUALS ACCUSED OF INVOLVEMENT
IN THE BOMBING, HAVE NOT YET BEEN GROUGHT TO TRIAL. Волен,
WHO SUFFERS FROM A HEART AILMENT AND ULCERS, HAS BEEN ON A
SECRET

14-00000
L
SECRET
WARNING NOTICE
-
140350012.
TOFIR DA-315/02582-78
100 40 200 3974
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

UNGER STRIKE FOR APPROXIMATELY THREE HEEKS.)
2. ON 20 FEBRUARY 1978 OCTAVIOLEPAGE. VENEZUELAN.
INISTER OF INTERIOR, DISCUSSED BOSCH'S CONDITION WITH.A.
'GAN EXILE LEADER IN VENEZUELA. LEPAGE SAID THAT HE HAD
CEIVED REPORTS ON BOSCH'S PHYSICAL CONDITION AND THAT HE AND
HER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WERE CONCERNED THAT BOSCH MIGHT
DEED DIE. SHOULD THIS OCCUR. LEPAGE SAID HE HAD NO DOUBT
HAT VENEZUELA WOULD BECOME THE TARGET FOR CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST
TTACKS. LEPAGE EXPLAINED THAT BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD MEAN
:
:
PROBLEMS FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY. THEREFORE,
LEPAGE ASKED THE EXILE LEADER TO TALK WITH BOSCH AND ATTEMPT
O DISSUADE HIM FROM CONTINUING WITH THE STRIKE.
3. THE CUBAN EXILE LEADER ACCOMPANIED BY REINALDO
MARTIN CANO, A CUBAN EXILE PHYSICIAN, VISITED BOSCH IN
THE HOSPITAL ON 21 FEBRUARY AND FOUND HIM TO BE IN SERIOUS
PHYSICAL CONDITION... BOSCH ALLOWED MARTIN TO GIVE HIM INJECTIONS
FO COMBAT BRAIN DEHYDRATION, BUT REFUSED ANY OTHER TREATMENT.
BOSCH ALSO REFUSED TO GIVE UP HIS HUNGER STRIKE.
4. BOSCH EXPLAINED THAT HE WANTS TO BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL.
HUT ADDED THAT VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ
SAFRAID TO BRING HIM BEFORE A COURT OF LAW. PRESIDENT PEREZ.
BOSCH SAID, BETRAYED HIM AND THE CURAN EXILES. FURTHERMORE.
PRESIDENT PEREZ WILL BE PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DEATH
AND WILL PAY THE PRICE FOR HIS GUILT. (SOURCE COMMENTI
SEGRET
{

14-00000
L
SECRET
ARNING NOTICE
34 6350012
10F18 08-315102587
PAGE 003 OF 003
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

DETAILS OF PEREZ SUPPOSED BETRAYAL OF BOSCH ARE NOT KNOWN.
THE OPINION OF THE EXILE COMMUNITY IS THAT BOSCH AND PEREZ HAD
SOME SORT OF DEAL WHICH BOSCH FEELS PEREZ BETRAYED.)
5. ACO: VENEZUELA. CARACAS (22 FEBRUARY 1978) FIELD NO.
HVC-7653
6. FIELD DISSENE EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS.
•
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2

SECRET

14-00000
10/29/
SECRET
...
STAFF
ACTION: LA-8 (911) INFO: FILE, VR, CA-4, CA/506-0. CJ-6, EPS/EG
EUR-R, IP/DPS, ODPD-D, PCS/INT, PCS/11C-4, SIA, SIA/FLO
(40)

78 0196015
PAGE 001
TOP: 0714532 JAN 78
IN 0190415
CARA 35159

SECRET 071440Z JAN 78 STAFF
: CITE CARACAS 35159 (LADENBURG ACTING)
TO: PRIORITY THE HAGUE INFO DIRECTOR.
WNINTEL RNMUM REAM
REF: THE HAGUE 33452 0193080

1. FOR PAST 14 MONTHS VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES HAVE HAD
}
CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH AND THREE OTHER
INDIVIDUALS UNDER DETENTION IS CONNECTION WITH THE OCTOHER
1976 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER. DURING THE PAST WEEKS
SEVERAL BOMBING ATTACKS AGAINST VENEZUELAN INSTALLATIONS
IN THE U.S. HAVE TAKEN PLACE WITH CALLERS INDICATING THAT
THEY HAD BEEN CARRIED OUT BY ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS IN RETALIA-
TION FOR BOSCH'S IMPRISONMENT. STATION RECENTLY RECIEVED
INFORMATION FROM WKRAPIER-5 (A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY)
THAT THE GOV HAD INFORMATION THAT ADDITIONAL ATTACKS AGAINST
VENEZUELAN INSTALLATION AND/OR GOVERNMENT FIGURES BOTH IN
SIDE VENEZUELA AND ABROAD WERE BEING PLANNED. (THIS LAST
SENTENCE MAY NOT BE PASSED LIAISON.)

2. REF REQUEST IS PROBABLY IN RESPONSE TO A GENERAL
GOV DIRECTION URGING ADDITIONAL CAUTION AT ALL VENEZUELAN.
INSTALLATIONS.
3. NO FILE. E2. IMPDET.

Fib. Orlando Besch
END OF MESSAGE
AFCAPT
L

14-00000
i
:
55124157
۲۰
Stuf
INGEL
...
INFO: FILE. VR. DODO. CIPES. CAO, C/SDL-L, C١٠٥,
ACTION: LA-11 (527)
EPS/LG-2. EUR-B, Fo.5, 11D. IP/DUS, LSN/ID. OLPD-D, PCS/IMT-5, PCS/110-
: SIA, SIA/FL
(59%)
77 0100663
100 10 100 7970
TOR: 2015022 DEC 11
14 0100005
CARA 350°1

SECRET. 2014292 DEC 77 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 35091 (LADENBURG ACTING)
TO: DIRECTOR, LA/MIAMI.
TDFIR DH-315/15285-71
HVC-7828
WNINTEL ANMUM. INTEL
:
SUPDATA:
SOURCE: KRAPIER/WKRAPIER-S FROM SUBJECT OF CARACAS
33185 :T FOR LIAISON. OD OBJECTIVE: J-1. NO INDEX.
FILE: DEFERRED. ALL AFTER FILED: RNVIEW. CL BY
035133.

FILED: 2414292 XXXXX

L
DEC 24 1124ו
SECHET
CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201794292.
DO NOT DSCΣΠΟΥ
i

14-00000
L
C
SEDE
Intelligence Information. Cable : 200000
FANGE DEL
METON SALECTORAGE OD OF 008
CONTROLS STATED AT SONG AND END OF BEFOR

STATE/INO Jes/mero43 214/mec 88/19 Fel
(84/146) Sas ass Tafas 800 (mRD COPIES TOI
astis Fac AMSITON OCR SECUR DOS),
----
TORS 5 AN FORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENC
REPORT CLASS SECRE 1000INTELINOFORMONOCONTRACT
CITE TOFER 08-315/01
DISTON FER 70
C
C
C
C
COUNTRY VENEZUELA/CUBA
SUBJECT OPOSSIBLE RELEASE OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO ROSCH

(DOIS LATE JANUARY 1976)
SOURCES A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHOSE ACTIVITIES BRING HIM
INTO CLOSE CONTACT WITH VARIOUS GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS,
HE IS A FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

1. IN LATE JANUARY 1976 AN ADVIRER TO VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT
CARLOS ANDRES PERE Z SAID THAT PEREZ IS CURRENTLY CONSIDERING
GIVING FINANCIAL AID TO CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH
IN RETURN. FOR BOSCH'S AGREEMENT NOT TO MOLEST VENEZUELAN PER-
SONNEL OR FACILITIES. BOSCH, WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DENTENTION
IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A
CUBANA AIRLINER, WILL BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL SOON. THE ADVISER
SAID. HE ADMITTED. HOWEVER, THAT THERE IS NO CHANCE OF GETTING
A LEGAL CONVICTION AGAINST BOSCH..
:
2. PRESIDENT PEREZ IS CURRENTLY CONSIDERING GIVING
BOSCH'S WIFE BS. 10.000 (U.S. $2,300) A MONTH. UPON BOSCH B
RELEASE FROM PRISON PEREZ PLANS TO GIVE HIM U.S. $50.000 ΩΝ
THE CONDITION THAT HE NOT RETURN TO VENEZUELA AND THAT THE
SECRET

14-00000
L

SECRET
ARNING NOTICE
34 6350012
10F18 08-315102587
PAGE 003 OF 003

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT
DETAILS OF PEREZ SUPPOSED BETRAYAL OF BOSCH ARE NOT KNOWN.
THE OPINION OF THE EXILE COMMUNITY IS THAT BOSCH AND PEREZ HAD
SOME SORT OF DEAL WHICH BOSCH FEELS PEREZ BETRAYED.)
5. ACO: VENEZUELA. CARACAS (22 FEBRUARY 1978) FIELD NO.
HVC-7653

6. FIELD DISSENE EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS.
•
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2
SECRET
==End of OCR for page 17==