104-10215-10005 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTA
CO
JSE ONLY

STAFF
OMF 0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Message HANDLING INDICATOR
TOO
KAO

0 0 0 0 0

DATE-TIME GROUP
2100222
CONF: LA
INFO: FILE TRAN

PAGES
1

DIRECTOR
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
795395
DISSEM BY: U
0 NO INDEE
0 RETURN TO PER
0 PRIN #
川

TO: SANTO DOMINGO INFO LA/MIAΜΙΟΥ

EMUISE Y * C's suppesis ADDITIONAL

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 17047 IN 7939561* Y DISSEIN TO OPSLITG.

1. FOLLOWING ARE. HQS TRACES ON SUBSOURCES REF INFO:

A. COL. ORLANDO PIEDRA NEGUERUELA (201-247879) DPOB:
18 DEC 17, SAN ANTONIO DE LOS BANOS, CUBA. WAS VERY CLOSE TO

FULGENCIO BATISTA AND WAS CHIEF OF CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE DEPARTMENT
OF INVESTIGATION. ARRIVED IN U.S. 1959 FROM CUBA VIA THE DOM REP

AFTER BATISTA OVERTHROWN. OVER YEARS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN WORKING FOR
RETURN OF BATISTA TO POWER IN CUBA. LATEST INFO DATED APRIL 1970
REPORTED THAT HE WAS SOLICITING PRICES OF ARMAMENT FOR NICARAGUAN
GOVERNMENT. PRESUME THAT HE MAY KNOW EMGARNET-1 BECAUSE OF THEIR
SIMILAR PRE-CASTRO BACKGROUNDS.
:
B. FNU ALPIZAR POSSIBLY IDEN WITH EVELIO ALPIZ

AR PEREZ (201-2643443 DP0B: 27 NOV 31, ARROYO ARENAS, HABANA, CUBA.
EVELIO ALPIZAR WAS CUBAN AIR FORCE PILOT AND POSSIBLY A MEMBER OF THE
SERVICE DE INTELIGENCIA (SIM) UNDER BATISTA. HE FLEW TO FLORIDA 1
JAN 59 AFTER BATISTA'S OVERTHROW AND WHILE IN U.S. HE WAS APPRRENT

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
CROSS FILE COPY FOR
20F-244344
DO NOT DESTR
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET
: CL BY: 012913

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CINTER USE OM.
AGE
CO
ACP

0 0 0 0 0

OMF 0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGELOCATOR

STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE

ML
DATE THE CROUP
OCA

FACE
2
:
CRE
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
DIRECTOR
795395

DISSEM BY:
0 NO INDEE
0 RETURN TO PER
0 PREO #
A
::
TARGET OF CUBAN DGI ATTEMPTS TO LURE HIM BACK TO CUBA. UFGU-371,

SAPRIL LI REQUESTED BROOTHAT HE BE UITHDRAWN FROM "PROGRAM" BASED ON
CONTINUOUS TREATMENTS FOR NERVOUS DISORDER AND RECOGNIZED EMOTIONAL

INSTABILITY. "PROGRAM" PROBABLY REFERS TO AHERALD-ASSISTED FRENTE
REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (ERD) WHICH HAD RECRUITED HIM. IN 1963

ALPIZAR REPORTED PLANS TO BOMB CUBAN OIL REFINERY TO FBI AND CUSTOMS.

IN 1972 HE REPORTEDLY OWNER OF MIAMI AIR LEASING CORP.
ON

2. BOTH PIEDRA AND ALPIZAR PEREZ ARE SUBJECTS OF EXTENSIVE FBI
REPORTS AND INTERVIEWS AND BIT POSSIBLE THAT ALPIZAR MAY BE BUREAU

CONTACT. REQUEST STATION APPROVAL FOR PASSAGE OF NAMES OF PIEDRA AND
ALPIZAR TO FBI, NAMING THEM AS SOURCES OF REF INFO IN ORDER TO ASSIST

FBI IN ANY INVESTIGATION THAT THEY MIGHT MAKE INTO A LEGATIONS.

3. FILE: 22-4-1203 22-2-21/3: 200-9-351 201-247879; 201-2643444

201-64137-E-IMPDET.

LA COMMENT: INFORMATION PASSED BY EMFETCH-9 RE DOMINICAN AND PUERTO
RICAN EXTREMISTS TRAINING IN PUERTO RICO.

DATE:19 JANUARY 1976
ORIGR. SPRAGUE/JP
UNIT:LA/CAR/DRH
EXT: 1497

RICHARD S/SAMPSON
C/LA

COORD: OPS/ITG-

LA/COG

FISHER AMES
CILA CAR

SECRET
REPROD ION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS SHIBITED
IMPDET
: CL BY: -012913
