104-10170-10091 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FROM:
ACTIOX:
INFO:

Distribution:
By copy to: 2 - Washington
1- Santiago de Cuba
1- US Embassy

SUBJECT: Plans and Activities of the Directorio Revolucionario, Cuba
Orally to: None
1- Level, Air Attache

References:

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:
Subjects Plans and Activities of the Directorio Revolucionario

Sources: Juri Sinches 705
1. Part of the information in the attached report was forwarded by
HAVA 031.

2. Source, [ ], had previously not through a ritual organization, sent card through another student contact to [ ] that [ ] was interested to talk to [ ]. [ ] is very vocal to the Cuba elite that [ ] was not clandestinely. The information in the attached report was elicited from him during meetings on 9 and 10 March 1957.

Classification: SECRET

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTION

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

COUNTRY: Cuba
SUBJECT: Plans and Activities of the Directorio Revolucionario
PLACE ACQUIRED: Habana
SECRET

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
REPORT NO: HRH-1432
DATE OF INFO: October 1955-
9 March 1957
DATE ACQUIRED: 9-10 March 1957
DATE OF REPORT: 11 March 1957

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT:
[ ]: Member of Directorio Revolucionario (F)
[Seal of Contents ]

1. [  ] Sinches, is lector of the Directorio, is
the [ ]: (Apolitical Student Directory) formed at [ ] and with two delegates of TICA
[ ]: Diante Carlo [  ] to plan the uprising against the Batista regime. The delegates of the three groups agreed on a plan which called for [ ]
to lead the invasion to Oriente and the other groups to to press to go into action at a
designated time. [ ] were [ ] in the Gloria Maestra fighting, the
[ ] in Pinar del Rio, and [ ] was a delegate to the student committee during
the time of [  ], former Minister of Labor, and [ ] and Carlos Prío [ ].

2. [ ] of Col. Talio Lalico Rico in Havana October 1955. [ ]
in the Directorio Revolucionario [ ]
to go into hiding because they were being hunted by Presidential [ ] and because they
are members of Col. Lico’s [ ]. They have been entirely [ ] chairmen, since they have been
entirely able to operate, that the [ ] to go into action. Another [ ]
leader is [ ]. The Directorio in exile [ ]
in exile groups and recently, through [ ] the section, requested the [ ] to establish
[ ] in Mexico. No has to date been done by [ ]. At [ ] time he had been promised
to join the group but has been [ ] and in [ ] for a
[ ] of the Directorio. The Directorio is now in contact with
[ ]. He believes that many of the students will desert or go over to the Directorio [ ]

the fighting begins.
The Directorio cannot understand or comprehend why the F2D group, which is considered to
be [ ] has not gone into action as yet. The Directorio believes that [ ] has
instructed [ ] to the [ ] to remain quiet, but the reasons behind
these instructions have not been determined.

SECRET

FORM NO. 51-53 VARIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED
RI COPY 19-9-8-39

[REDACTED]
