104-10183-10355
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OPERATIONAL MATERIAL dated 8 February 1966 - 31 December 1970

ALIFS JOCUMENTATION AND TRAVEL

FORM
1075 2731 Use Previous Editions SECRET E-2, IMPDET CL. SY: 006637

ULV 14 June 76
(21)

USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL CORIES B

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY 5
SECRET
BACLIORDANO AUTOMATIC (When Filled In) 2 6
DE CLASSIFICATION
3 7

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED INDEX:
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
VES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO..
8

DISSEM.BY X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
ACTION UNIT ACTION NO. FILE, VR FILE RID RETURN TO BRANCH
TSD 538 ALLAN, WH 8, DOP

SECRET3122147 DEC 70 CITE DIRTECH 0697 DITY 31 DEC 235964
IIMEDIATE WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR
TYPIC AMMUG AQUATIC
REF: DIRTECH 3696 (IN IN 236095)
IDENTITY MR. LESTER L RHODES
6718 EDSAL ROAD
SPRINGFIELD, VIRGINIA 22151 GP-1
SECRET.

END OF MESSAGE
ORIG: DONALD RATER ACOP/TSD
LEASING OFFICER. KONALD KATER TSD/COP

CS C07

SECRET 201-749651- 31 Dec 70

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION 5
USE UNIT NOTIFICO TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
SECRET
When Filed la
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTER
ACTION UNIT
FILE VR
M/N. 8, TP
SECRET 312214Z DEC 73 CITE DIRTECH 3696
MEDIATE WH/MI INFO DIRECTOR 2 JAN 236095

TYPICANTUS AQUATIC
REF: WH/MIAMI 9915
SEND PHOTOS TO IDENTITY. GP-1.
SECRET
HE
SECRET

31 DEC70

31 December 1970
Wi/COG-70-447

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

ATTENTION : Mr. Ruffner

SUBJECT : Amendment of OA for AMMUG/1

It is requested that the Operational Approval for

AHMUG/1 (201-749651) be amended to permit his operational

use outside the United States.

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee
1
WH/COG/OPS Bernice Turbeville
1 WII/COG/CHRONO WH/COG/OPS

Originator
31 Dec 70

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
*ASONTUNIT NOTIFIED LASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COFIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS BEEN OY
SECRET
(When Filled Int filen Filled in!
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED 5
SLOTTED ESNOO
ADVANCE COPY INDEX 15
MY
DISSEM BY AT 8
ACTION UNIT
-2
L
FILE. VR
2/1488
ACTION NO.
888
REF TO CS FILE NO
FILE CID RETURN TO
SI/AN, EUR 6, FI, C1, CI/OPS

SECRET 311239Z DEC 70 CITE MADRID 2755
WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR THE HAGUE LONDON
TYPIC 2743(N 234495)
REF: MADRID 2743 (IN 234495,

1. LIAISON TRAVEL LIST DATED 21 DECEMBER SHOWS
Tui baville

ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART AND EUGENIOGONZALEZ

ALVAREZ LEFT FOR CASABLANCA ON THAT DATE. LIAISON LISTS
NOT ALWAYS ACCURATE,

2. FILE 201-865545M GP-1
SECRET
SECRET
31 Dcc.70.

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING ANDORINITIALS SEEN BY
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFICO Willed
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED INDEX
BY

DISSEM BY
PER X-REF TO FILE NO

ACTION UMT ACTION NO. FILE, VR RETURN TO BRANCH
W2
SECRET 3111312 DEC 70 CITE THE HAGUE 8901 597
ΨΗΜΙΑΜΙ INFO DIRECTOR, MADRID, LONDON 31 DEC 235592
TYPIC (234350)
REF: WH/MIANI 09883
1. DEPENDING ON NATURE AND DEGREE WH/MIAMI INTEREST
SUBJECT REF, WOULD RECOMMEND WATCHLISTING WITH DUTCH LIAISON
WHICH MIGHT PRODUCE TIMELY INFORMATION ON SUBJECT'S ARRIVAL,
RESIDENCE WHILE IN THE NETHERLANDS AND ONWARD ITINERARY.
OTHERWISE, STATION WILL AT BEST BE ABLE TO PROVIDE AFTER
THE FACT TRAVEL DATA. PLEASE ADVISE WHETHER WATCHLISTING

DESIRED.
-
2. WOULD EMPHASIZE THAT WATCHLISTING WILL SIGMAL JKLANCE
INTEREST, ALTHOUGH WE STIMATE LITTLE IF ANY LIAISON CONCERN.
ALSO THAT STATION MUST, IN GENERAL, LIMIT OVERALL VOLUME
WATCHLISTING REQUIREMENTS.
3. FOR DIRECTOR. RECOMMEND HAS BE ALERT TO TRACES
SUBJECT REF IN MATERIAL FORWARDED UNDER ONHA-37367 AND

RELATED.
4. FILE: 201-365545. GP-1.

SECRET
SECRET r

31 Dec. 70.

C
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PEROUN INIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPICS kl ROUTING AND CH INITIALS SEEN
SECRET
When Frasi Ind
-6-
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED REPROQUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

SLOTTED NOL
YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE 'NO
AT X REF TO CS FILE NO.
DISSEM ACTION UNIT
118 ACTION NO.
C942
FILE, VR 121/122, FILE RID RETURN TO Turhaville
ppban
BRANCH
EUR 6, CI, CHOPS, EL Joday.

SECRET 311721Z DEC 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 9914 31 DEC 235045
THE HAGUE INFO DIRECTOR, KADRID, LONDON
TYPIC
REF: THE HAGUE 1991(1) 235592

1. AFTER WEIGHING REF CONSIDERATIONS AND OUR NEED TO
NAIL DOUR SUBJECT'S LOCATION, REQUEST THE HAGUE WATCHLIST
SUBJECT OF REF WITH DUTCH LIAISON.
2. FILE: 201-865545. GP-1

SECRET
31 DEC70

USE PREVIOUS
-EDITIONS CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION SECRET
PERSONUNITENDOTIFIED (When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
3
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED LOTTED
YESNOLO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO

FILE RID RETURN TO Tibull
C
CBY 15 X REF TO CS FILE NO
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNFT FILE, VR RJAN EVAG chilops, Fl
ACTION NO.
29 DECIN 234495
SECRET 291714Z DEC 70 CITE MADRID 2743 from liepei
LONDON, WHAMIANI INFO THE HAGUE, PARIS, DIRECTOR
TYPIC. QUTIMID
REF: WH/MIAMI 09383 (0234350)

1. RE PARA 1 REF, ON 21 DECEMBER ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ

LLONPART CALLED DIONISICARRAN Z TREMOLS, CUBAN
COMMERCIAL COUNSELOR IN LONDON, AND TOLD HIM HE LEAVING
THAT DATE FOR LONDON. LLOMPART, WHO TRAVELLING WITH
T
EUGENIO GONZALE Z ALVEREZ, WAS TO BE MET BY ARRANZ

AT AIRPORT.
2. SHORTLY AFTERWARDS, BLANQUITA (PROBABLY BLANCA
CALVET, ADMINISTRATOR CUBAN COMMERCIAL OFFICE LONDON)
CALLED RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART AND SAID SHE LOOKING FORWARD TO HIS

VISIT. RODRIGUEZ ASKED BLANCA NOT GIVE UP APARTMENT IN
LONDON WHICH THEY SHEESULED GIVE UP I JANUARY SO THAT
HE MIGHT USE IT. CH

3. 30TH ARRANZ AND BLANQUITA ASKED RODRIGUEZ ABOUT HIS

BROTHER'S EYESIGHT TO WHICH RODRIGUEZ REPLIED HE GETTING
ALONG QUITE WELL.

4. FILE 291-8655547. GP-1
SECRET 29 Dec 10
SECRET

V
OVANCE COPY
ISSUED
MOTTED
MESSAGES TOTAL CUPES

SECRET (when Filed a

GROUP
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
FILTRID
FILE, VR RIIAN যোরক
SECRET 29142 DEC 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 09883 IN 234 350
PRIORITY LONDON, THE HAGUE, PARIS INFO DIRECTOR MADR ID
TYPIC (L 233739)

REF: MADRID 2727 (NOT SENT PARIS)
1. REQUEST THAT JAGUAR : A.) CONFIRM LONDON ARRIVAL OF

ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ LLOMPARI B.) IF POSSIBLE, PROVIDE
PRESENT LOCATION AND/OR ONWARD TRAVEL PLANS.

2. FOR THE HAGUE: REQUEST YOU FORWARD ANY INFO THAT
BECOMES AVAILABLE ON RODRIGUEZ TRAVEL YOUR AREA.
3. FOR PARIS: REF REPORTED THAT RODRIGUEZ DEPARTED MADR ID

FOR LONDON ON 21 DECEMBER AND INDICATED THAT HE PLANNING A.
40-DAY EUROPEAN TRIP INCLUDING A POSSIBLE VISIT THE HAGUE.
NO
SPECIFICS AVAILABLE. REQUEST THAT YOU FORWARD ANY INFO THAT BECOMES
AVAILABLE ON RODRIGUEZ TRAVEL YOUR AREA.
4. FILE: 291-865547. GP-1

SECRET
SECRET 29Dec170

ASSIFIED MESSAGE
01311
ADVANCE COPY
SECRET
12.07 155

SECRET 231527Z DEC 70 CITE MADRID 2727
PRIORITY WH/HMIANI INFC PRIORITY DIRECTOR, THE HAGUE, LONDON
TYPIC
HEFS: A. MADRID 2715 (NOT SENT THE HAGUE AND LORCO)
(11231249)
232401)
2. DIRECTOR 397508 CHOT SENT THE HAGUR AND LONDON)
C. WH/MIANI 9865 (NOT SENT THE HAGUE AND LOC
ROBERTO RODRIGUEZLLCUPART SCHEDULED DEFARI

MADRID FOR LONDON 21 DECEMBER 197C. QUTINID REVEALS HE PLANNING
43-DAY EUROPEAN TRIP AND HENTIONED POSSIBLE VISIT THE HAGUE
(DATES NOT SPECIFIED).
2. FILE 261-865545. EP-1
SECRET
SECRET
$: Dec70

TOTAL COPT. 3-1
SECRET
GROUP 1 5
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED 2 6
ACTION UNIT FILE, VR RI/AN, EUR 6, FI, CI, CI/OPS, Ci/ic 2
WH 8 ACTION NO.
0539 SECRET 241437Z DEC 73 CITE WH/MIANI 9865 240EC 232901

PRIORITY MADRID INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR
TYPIC
REF MADRID 2715 (23/219)
1. PLS PROVIDE ANY INFO AVAILABLE ON PRESENT LOCATION AND/OR
ONWARD TRAVEL PLANS OF ROSERTO RODRIGUE Z LLOMPART.
2. FILE: 201-865547. GP 1.
SECRET

SECRET 24 Dec 70

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION LASSIFIED VES TOTAL COPES 1 ROUTING AND CA IN TIAL SELN BY
TCRET 1
en Fi 2 Si
(4/60/21)
ADLANCE COP, ESSEM E 6
SLOTTED.
WH8 ACTIONST FILE, VA ALAN Dod coc Cilicz CAS CAPROP
742 CALLEG DAP ADDP CSDO F2
SECRET 151847Z SEP 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 8936 18 SEP it. 166076
! (
DO BASE NEW YORK INFO DIRECTOR
TYPIC AMROSE DONOPS

REFERENCE: DO BASE NEW YORK 8153
1. STATION WENT THROUGH FILES OF AMMUG-1
AND AMDAUB-1 AND HAD OUTSIDE OFFICERS CONTACT

THEM TO DETERMINE FEASIBILITY OF REF PROPOSAL.
2. ANMUG-1 AND STATION FEEL THAT ANY
PUBLICITY GIVEN HIM AT THIS THE WOULD ONLY

BE DETRIMENTAL. HE IS HAPPILY SETTLED AND
DOES NOT WANT HIS PAST BROUGHT TO THE
ATTENTION OF HIS NEIGHBORS OR PERSONS HE

WORKS WITH.
3. ANDAUB-1 ON THE OTHER HAND IS
SETTLED BUT CURRENTLY HAS FINANCIAL PROBLEMS

DUE TO INACTIVITY CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS,
FAMILY PROBLEMS, ETC., ALL OF WHICH ARE NOT
CONDUC IVE FOR ANY INTERVIEW.

4. IN LIGHT OF THE FOREGOING WE FEEL

THAT THE TIME IS NOT PROPITIOUS FOR ANY ARTICLES

) 201802 332 File: 201-749651.
SECRET . Sept. 1970
나

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES POUTING AND/OR

SECRET (When Filled In
ISSUED REPRODUCTION CE POHIBITED

CISSEM BY PER
ACTION UNIT IGN NO. FILE, VR

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 8936 SECRET
TO BE PUBLISHED AT LEAST ON THESE TWO
DEFECTORS..
5. FILE: 201-354406. GP-1
SECRET
SECRE 201-749651

SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISPATCH NO
FILE NO
DATE
UFAW-878
201-749651
22 MAY 1970
INDEX NO
FILM NO
TO CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI
INFO NO
FROM CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION
D
SUBJECT CITIZENSHIP OF AMMUG-I

ACTION SEE BELOW
REFS UFAX-14-DATED 13 JAN 70
UFAW-771 DATED 3 FEB 70
25
UFAA-1844 DATED 6 MAR 70

1. BILL NO. HR 17740 WAS INTRODUCED TO CONGRESS ON 20
MAY 1970 REQUESTING WAIVING THE TEN-YEAR PROVISION OF THE
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION ACT IN THE CASE OF AMMUG-1.
2. THE BILL WILL PROBABLY NOT PASS THIS SESSION OF CONGRESS,

BUT ITS INTRODUCTION WILL INITIATE THE NECESSARY PAPER WORK
MAXING CHANCES FOR PASSAGE OF THE BILL GOOD FOR THE NEXT SESSION.

DISTRIBUTION Jones Jaungiol
3 COS, WH/MIAMI JOYCE X. JAWGIEL
COORDINATE:
WH/COG/OP/Geisler:kgb 22May70
Distribution: C/WH/COG/OP
1-749651-

1 WH/COG/Chrono
1- Originator C/WH/COG

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFAW-878 PAGE ONE
22 May 70
201-749651-

DISTAC
-
10
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
INFO.

MARRED FOR INDELING
FROM NO INDEXING REQUIRED
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT
Vladimir RODRIGUEZ La Hera ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUTIGE INDEXING
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
MICROFILM
Action Required: See Delow
Reference: UFAW-878
Attached is a copy of Bill No. HR 17740 which may be
passed to Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera.

Distribution
3-COS, WH/Miami w/att herewith
Att
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFA
ASSI
FORM
1-63
Joyce K. JANGIEL
CS COPY
DATE
ORIGINATING
TYPIST
3 JUN 1970

S-E-C-R-E-T 201-749651
EXT.
7144
OFFICE

WH/COG/OP/Daryl Geisler kgb COORDINATING
OFFICE SYMBOL
OFFICER'S NAME
ALA
AB
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
OFFICER'S NATURE
28 May 1970 C/WH/COG 25/6- Cen Glenn Brown

Distribution
1- 201-749651 L
1 Originator
RELEASING
DESINED
FI
C/WH/COG 25/5
1930 (40) James Flannery
DISPATCH
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
MFG. 11 69 3 Sun 70

CONGRESS
D SESSION H. R. 17740

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MAY 20, 1970
Mr. Rootso introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary
1
A BILL
For the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez Lallera.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3 That Vladimir Rodriguez Lalfera, who was lawfully ad-
4 mitted to the United States for permanent residence on July

52, 1964, shall be held and considered not to be within the
6 classes of persons whose naturalization is prohibited by the
7 provisions of section 313 of the Immigration and Nationality
8 Act.
III
CS COPY
Hiwatt to u FAW- SJ3 201-749651

SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISPATCH NO
FILE NO
DATE
UFAV-373
201-749651
22 MAY 1970
INDEX NO
FILM NO
TO CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI
INFO NO
FROM CHIEF, WESTERS HEMISPHERE DIVISION
SUBJECT -CITIZENSHIP OF AMMLG-1
ACTION SEE DELO
REFS UFAX-14 DATED 13 JAN 70
UFAW-771 DATED 3 FES 73
UFAA-1344 DATED 6 MAR 70
1. BILL NO. HR 17740 WAS INTRODUCED TO CONGRESS ON 20

MAY 1970 REQUESTING WAIVING THE TEN-YEAR PROVISION OF THE
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION ACT IN THE CASE OF AMMUG-1.
2. THE BILL WILL PROBABLY NOT PASS THIS SESSION OF CONGRESS,

BUT ITS INTRODUCTION WILL INITIATE THE NECESSARY PAPER WORK
MAKING CHANCES FOR PASSAGE OF THE BILL GOOD FOR THE NEXT SESSION.
•• DISTRIBUTION
3-
COS, WH/MIAMI Joyce K. JANGIEL
WH/COG/OP/Geisler:kgb 22 May70
Distribution: COORDINATE:
1749651

1 WH/COG/Chrono
1- Originator C/WH/COG

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFAS-373 PACE ONS
CSL 201-749651
-2-2 Play 70

10097
867νιους του SECRET
SECRET
then Foli
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
:
SUB JEGT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2. RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 6. DATE OF INFO. D. EVALUATION
5. ANALYST DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
13. TRANSFERRED TO
'RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION
AMMUG /1/ 201-824335
201-749651 UFAA-01982
SEX M DOB ? 04 MAY 70
CIT ?
OCC?:
IDENTIFIED COMMERCIAL COUNSELOR IN CSR

15.
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. 9-57
SECRET

R 7005080080

FILE IN 201-749651

DEFO
DISPATCH
CLASSIF KATION
SECRET
FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

FROM
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
SUBJECT
Status of AMMUG-1
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
FROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Action Required:
Para 2, below
References: A. UFAX-14
B. UFAW-771
C. UFAW-730

1. Forwarded herewith is the most recent contact.
report from Hensry 8. PACHANKIS concerning AMMUG-1.
2. As indicated, PACHANKIS broke the bad news
contained in Reference B on AMMUG-1's citizenship.
AMMUG-1 apparently took the news as well as could
be expected. Nevertheless, the Station would appreciate

periodic notice on the status of AMMUG-1's case so
we may keep him informed on any progress.
3. In regard to Reference C, PACHANKIS probed in
the area of wife problems and never really resolved
the situation. PACHANKIS seemed to think, however,

that the wife is still living with AMMUG-1.
Attachment:
Contact Report

Distribution:
3- Chief, WHD w/att h/w
CROSS REFERENCE TO
Melvin D. KERSCHEN

MAR 6 1370
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
UFAA-1844 2 March 1970
CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER
S-E_C_R_E_T 201-749651

Niwatt / UEFA 1844
OS COPY 201-749651

SECRET
DISPATCH
LASS CATO
XX
SECRET
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
ICAN JUDGE INDEXING
H.C20FILM
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: FYI
References: UFAA-1774
1. On 26 February when Henry S. PACHANKIS met with
AMMUG-1 (201-749651) on his citizenship problem, information

on the following two brothers vas obtained:
Hector RODRIGUEZ Llompart
(201-276598)
Cuban Ambassador to East Germany
Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart
CIT:
Cuba
DOB: 22 October 1932
POB: Regla, Havana, Cuba
OCC: Governmont

2. This information was as follows:
3. AMMUG-1 was asked if he had anything new to
report, He brought up a most interesting case, one
which could prove to be a valuable lead.
b. AMMUG-1 has known the RODRIGUEZ family since
his childhood in Regla (a small town across the bay

from Havana). The father had been a bolita banker
during the Batista era.
c. AMMUG-1 was very friendly with RODRIGUEZ' two
sons:
Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart
DPOB: c. 1934 in Regla, Havana, Cuba
Hector RODRIGUEZ Lloapart
CS Cepif flis in 201-865547 MAR 6 1512
Distribution: 701-749657
3- Chief, WHD
CROSS REFERENCE TO
201-749651

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
UFAA-1845 3 March 1970
CLASSIFICATION
HS ALE HUMBER
SECRET
201-276598

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
UFAA-1845

d. During the middle and late 1950s, Roberto
had been a salesman for the Burroughs flour company
and had stayed clear of the political picture in Cuba.
e. During the same period, Hector had been a

student in the University of Havana, under Raul ROA,
and had taken part in some revolutionary activities.
He had been arrested and beaten by the Batista police
for his anti-government actions and his father had
sent him into exile in the US.
f. When Castro came into power, the father was
a potential "var criminal" for his illicit dealings.
AMMUG-1, who was in the police force in the initial
stages of the revolution, states that he deleted an

incriminating page from the father's dossier (showing
he paid off the police to run his bolita operation)
and thus saved him from prosecution.
g. AMMUG-1 continued to be close to the family,
especially with Roberto, "whom I sav every day and
ran around with." Roberto never entertained the
revolution. As late as 1962-63, "We used to talk
quite openly and frankly. He was always against the
revolution and the communists. Ile worked in the
Ministry of Industry because his brother got him the
job, but he had only one idea in his head: to get out
of Cuba and come to the US. He was even plotting to
get out by boat. He had a US visa for many years and
had visited here many times."

h. When AMUG-1 defected, he lost contact with
Roberto. But, about two weeks ago a neighbor from
Regla came to Miami on the Freedom Flights. (COMMENT:
This undoubtedly refers to Cuban refugee Segundo
CASCUDO Gonzalez. Reference forwarded the AMOT
debriefing of CASCUDO on Roberto.) When AMMUG-1
asked about Roberto, the neighbor said that he under-
stood that Roberto, "was assigned in a foreign
Dabassy." The refugee could not say what country
Roberto was in.
"This
I
i. This news prompts AMMUG-1 to comment:
would be a most interesting person to talk to.
don't think that he has changed his original way of
thinking. I believe he took the job to get out of
Cuba, and because of the influence of his brother
Hector. I know he will talk to me and there is no
telling what this man is capable of doing if someone

approached him."
j. Roberto is (or was) married to:
Zulema (Inu)
DPOB: c. 1934 in Cuba
They had two children and the wife was even
more anti-Castro than Roberto.

k. Hector, the other brother, was a rabid revolutionary
when AMMUG-1 last saw him in c. 63-64. He had joined
the Castro bandwagon at the outset due to his revolutionary
activities during the Batista era and his closeness to
Raul ROA. In c. 1960-61-62, Hector was closely aligned

CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO.
FORM
8:64
53 a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION. CONTINUED
(40)
SECRET
2

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
UPAA-1845
with "Che" GUEVARA and served in his entourages, even
on foreign junkets. The was very close to Che and
traveled abroad a lot. He and I were good friends
he used to bring me gifts when he returned from trips
but you couldn't even insinuate any opposition to the

revolution, ho was so fierce for it. I hear that ho
is the Ambassador to Germany; I guess through his
friendship with Raul ROA. I doubt if he has changed,
but I can talk to him in complete confidence perhaps
not like I could Roberto but I could know how he
thinks".
3. Since Roberto appears to be an excellent recruit-

ment target, we will have him watchlisted with a view
toward having AMMUG-1 make an approach to him at the
first opportunity. Although Hector appears far less
vulnerable, ve vill consider an approach to him should
he be transferred to a Free World country.
4.

Please open a 201 file on Roberto.
Melvin D. KERSCHEN
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO.
FORM
8-64
53 a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
(40)
SECRET
CONTINUED
3

SCOTTED
ADV
ACTION
SECRET
(Wien Filles I

FILE, VR RIIAN. ENG ci calops fiz.

ACTION NO.
549
SECRET 0320352 MAR 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 6665 3 MAR 11.003770

DIRECTOR INFO MADRID, PARIS m

TYPIC UNCOSMIC
REF: A. PARIS 4569 (INVIDIO)
B. DIRECTOR 059584 (NOT SENT PARIS) (INO1367)

C. WH/MIAMI 6046 (NCT SENT PARIS)
D. UFAA-1845 (NOT SENT PARIS, MADRID)
1. WH/MIAMI HAS GOOD ASSESSMENT FROM AMMUG-1
(201-749651, DGI DEFECTOR I!! 1964) ON ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ
LLOMPART, SUBJECT OF REFS. AMMUG-1 HAD CLOSE PERSONAL

RELATIONSHIP WITH ROBERTO, WITH WHOM HE GREW UP IN REGLA,
HAVANA. IN 1962 AND-63, THEY TALKED QUITE FRANKLY AND
OPENLY. ROBERTO ALWAYS TALKED AGAINST THE REVOLUTION
AND COMMUNISTS. HE HAD ONE PRINCIPAL IDEA TO LEAVE CUBA
AND GO TO STATES, EVEN BY BOAT. AMMUG-1 DOES NOT BELIEVE

HE COULD HAVE CHANGED AND ONLY HOLDS CURRENT GOC POSITION

POUSE OF BROTHER, HECTOR (231-276598), WHO IS AMBASSAD OR
IN EAST GERMANY. AMMUG-1 IS SURE ROBERTO WILL TALK WITH
HIM.
2. AMMUG-1 SAID HECTOR WAS RABID REVOLUTIONARY

Cs copy filed
n. 281-276598

SECRET 201749651

MESSAGE
CLASSIFIED TOTAL COPI
T
SECRET
(When. Filled in)
C
ACTION 3
ION UNIT 202 20
FUN SSULO 8
LOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THE CO
PROA
YEN HO

CLASSIFY TO CO FILE NO.
FILE, VR GREP TO CS FILE NO.
Pick
PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 6565SECRET
AND CLOSE TO RAUL ROA.. ALSO HAD BEEN CLOSE FOLLOWER OF
CHE GUEVARRA. AMMUG-I COULD ALSO TALK TO HECTOR IN
COMPLETE CONFIDENCE, BUT NOT WITH SAME CONFIDENCE AS
WITH ROBERTO.
3. DIRECTOR: POUCHING REF D, WHICH IS DEBRIEFING
OF AMMUG-1 ON ROBERTO AND HECTOR.
4. MADRID: PLS PUT BOTH BROTHERS ON WATCHLIST.
ESPECIALLY INTERESTED IN PUTTING AMMUG-1 IN CONTACT

WITH ROBERTO WHEN HE TRAVELES TO EUROPE AGAIN.
5. PARIS: PLS QUERY UNCOSMIC-1 FOR ANY FURTHER
DETAILS HE CAN RECALL ABOUT TALKS WITH ROBERTO (REF A).
6 FILE 201-276598 AND 201-749651. GP-1
SECRET

SECRET
201-749651

UNCLASSIFIED
ERNAL
ONLY CONF ENTIAL SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: EXTENSION
NO
Chief, WHD DATE
TO: (Officer designation, room nümber, and OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
building) RECEIVED FORWARDED
FEB 1970 13 Fetis T
DDP

Legislative Counsel Jm
17711-1771
EALDOCI

DDCI
ER

C/WH
C/WH/COG 19 FEB 1970
DC/WH/C06 19 FEB 1970

JWHk/OPS
Daryl
USE PREVIOUS INTERNAL
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED
EDITIONS USE ONLY

WH/COG 70-46
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

THROUGH : Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT : Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera
1. This memorandum contains a recommendation in
paragraph three for the approval of the DDCI.
2. Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera is a former Cuban national
who defected to the United States in Nova Scotia, Canada on
21 April 1964. At that time he was an intelligence officer
in the General Directorate of Intelligence, the Cuban external
intelligence agency. He was brought to the United States
under the provision of Section 7 of Public Law 110 (CIA Act
of 1949). He has never been a member of the Communist Party,
but due to his service in the Cuban external intelligence
organization he is not eligible to petition for naturalization
until ten years after the date of his defection, or 1974.
3. Mr. RODRIGUEZ desires to become a naturalized U.S.
citizen at the earliest possible time and has requested
assistance from this Agency. We request that a private bill
be submitted to Congress waiving the ten-year provision of
the Immigration and Naturalization Act in his case, enabling
him to become a U.S. citizen after five years of residence.
It is recommended that you authorize the Legislative Counsel

to seek a private bill for RODRIGUEZ' relief.

SEGENT

SECRET
SUBJECT: Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera

4. Biographic Data and a Detailed Justification and
Assessment on this case are attached.

William V. Broe
Chief,
Western Hemisphere Division

Attachments: (A) Biographic Data
(