104-10527-10212 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

6153 SECRET
21 NOV. 63 200-120-47
BELLOU
DIRECTOR SCEN
SAS O ROUTINE
DCI, C/DCI, DOP, ADOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, EE 4,
NE 6, FE 6, WH 3, (POUCH FRAN 9, BONN 5, BRLN 5, ATHE 6,
ALL THE 3
MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE 65367
PERUMEN ZRPRIMA
LOND PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC OSLO MADR
SOLE
CABLE SEC: IPLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)
FRAN FROB BONN HAMB BRUN MUNI VIEN ATHE
BERN GNVA CALE BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP
MRID SAGO MONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA
QUIT QUAT SHTO NELS TURY HORC WAVE BARC
BELS LISB MILA OTTA TRIE

COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
SECRET OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ORIG: D. FONIS:jd ROUTING
6153 1. 4.
21 NOV. 63 2. 5
NO INDEX 3. 6.
200-120-47
CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES 22 Nov 63 17 83Z
DIRECTOR
SAS O SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
NO MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE INFO CITE DIR 85387
RBRUMEN ZRPRIMA
REF: DIR 22218
RECENTLY CONCLUDED HOS REVIEW OF ZRPRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS
THAT KUBARK EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND
CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED. MAIN REASON
FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM
HAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE WHEN MEASURED AGAINST ORIGINAL
OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE. THOUGH OUR
FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY
CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRM
ABOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUBARK
SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED THRU INTO THE
VARIOUS HIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT
APPROVAL FROM HAVA.
2 CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS
DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC
INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS.

COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
SECRET OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN OS FILE NO.
PAGE TWO
INFO ROUTINE
CITE DIR 85387
AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTER ST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO
HIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN
PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO
APPLICATIONS, LABU DELAY IN GETTING CORD BACK FROM HAVANA AND
SMALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY HIRED. LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN
INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM HAVA, WHICH BEING
SIX TO HIME MONTHS, HAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS WHO WERE
INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER
JOBS.
3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE
TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZRPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION
INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. WISH STRESS
STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY
WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS
TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR
NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE
TO RIVE NEED ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR
TO ZRPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URGED TO REMAIN
ALERT FOR SECH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO REPLOIT THEM IN SAME MANNER
4 ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.

COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
SECRET OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

TO
PAGE THREE

INFO ROUTINE
CITE DIR 85387
3. IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT MOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE
FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF
APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY
ACCEPTABLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION
4 RESPONSE OF MOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING ZRPRIMA HAS
BEEN HOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY
QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECENICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED
2
UNABLE OR UNFILLING TO ACCEPT. KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE
EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT
ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS BARELY REFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION
AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS.
5 DISCONTINUE USE ZRPRIMA SLUG AND 200-120-47
END OF MESSAGE
CIS COMMENT: Cable pre-deter CS files. Copy may be seen in CIA
reference file.

COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
SECRET OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

INDEX
FILE IN OS FILE NO
PAGE FOUR
INFO ROUTINE
CITE 85387

SAS/EOB
SAS/ROB
WZ/5 BC Loebe
CAE Tom Fether
ES/DD
WH.Fier
CM Thom Megill
