14-00000
 SECRET
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: CHRIST, DAVID L OPP

INCLUSIVE DATES: 23 Aug 1950 - 19 Nov 1974

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
ROOM: 5E13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:
DATE
RECEIVED
DATE
RETURNED
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
SECRET
CHRIST, LAWILATES:
30050
CIA RESUME - DAVID L. CHRIST
October 1950 - January 1958
Deputy Chief, Applied Physics Branch.
Recruitment, development and supervision of up to 20 professionals - electronic engineers and physicists - in research, development and engineering.
Technical areas covered - electronics, acoustics, optics, electro-optics, magnetics, electromagnetics, solid-state physics.
Typical Programs: (Communications, etc.) RF systems, microphones, recorders, transmitters, receivers, amplifiers, control systems, signal processing and enhancement, radar systems, audio and video circuitry and devices.
January 1953 - August 1963
Chief, Technical Applications Group.
Supervised 30 engineers and technicians.
Engineered, produced, tested and evaluated com- ponents, devices and systems such as listed above. Developed administrative, logistics, supply and training programs, and reliability procedures and programs to implement their effective application.
August 1963 - November 1970.
Chief, Applied Physics Division
Recruited, developed and supervised professionals - scientists and engineers, GS-12 to GS-15, one SPS-4, in advanced R&D programs.

CIA Resume - David L. Christ---2
Primary exphases were on new advanced components, devices, systems and concepts for intelligence support activities. Basic orientation -- advanced systems concepts based on microtechnology.
Technical areas -- Microelectronics (particularly micropower), solid-state physics, acoustics, electro-optics, electromechanics, avionics, stability and control, navigation, communications (analogue and digital), radar systems.
Typical programs -- Solid-state components and devices; communication systems--audio, video, telemetry; sensors--acoustic, optical, nuclear, RF, etc.; avionte subsystems; data processing; power sources; electronic equipments, de to microwave; antennas, systems study and analysis.
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

21 December 1970
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. David L. Christ
THROUGH: Deputy Director for Science and Technology
THROUGH: Director of Research and Development
SUBJECT : Intelligence Medal of Merit

1. The Honor and Merit Awards Board is pleased to notify you that the award named above will be conferred on you in recognition of the excellent service you have rendered this Agency. Security con- siderations relevant to the award are explained in the attached memo- randum from the Office of Security.
2. The award will be presented to you at a ceremony to be held in the near future. Members of your family, Agency associates, and intimate friends who are aware of your Agency affiliation may attend the ceremony.
3. Invitations to the ceremony will be extended by the Secretariat, Honor and Merit Awards Board, Office of Personnel, extension 3645. Please send to that office the names and phone numbers of the guests you would like to have invited, and indicate any dates on which you would not be available for such a ceremony.
/Sgd/ Robert M. Gaynor
ROBERT M. GAYNOR
Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Board

Distribution:
Orig Addressee
1- D/ORD
D/Pers Reader Chrono/OPF
1 Sec't, HMAB
1
Recorder, HΜΑΒ

ΑΓΑNISTRATIVE - INTERNAL US ONLY

DATE
REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD
Executive Re
The Honor and Merit Awards Board having considered a recommendation that:

SERIAL OR ID NO.
OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
DDS&T/ORD
DE AWARDED

NAME (Lant-First-Middle)
CHRIST, David L.
170-5969
17 November 1970

BIRTHYEAR
SD
1918
SCHEDULE GRADE
GS-16
SEX TYPE EMPLOYEE
M

Intelligence Medal of Merit
FOR HERDIC ACTION ON

FOR MERITORIOUS SERVICE OR ACHIEVEMENT DURING THE PERIOD Nov 1950-Nov 1970
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
DOES NOT RECOMMEND APPROVAL
RECOMMENDS AWARD OF
UNCLASSIFIED CITATION
REMARKS

Mr. David L. Christ is hereby awarded the Intelligence Medal of Merit in recognition of his outstanding career and his many contributions to the mission of the Central Intelligence Agency. His imaginative, innovative thinking and his tireless efforts, marked by a thorough knowledge of intelligance operations, have been instrumental in developing programs of significance. His devotion to superior standards of performance at home and abroad has been an inspiration to his colleagues and brings great credit upon him and the Federal Service.
(Recommendation originated by D/ORD on 2 November 1970)

/s/ Richard Helms
DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

16 DEC 1970
DATE

/s/ Robert S. Wattles
TYPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, HONON AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD
ROBERT S. WATTLES
SIGNATURE. Signed Original
TYPED NAME OF RECORDER
ROBEP M. GAYNOR
(4)

B9J 27 NOV 20
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION.
LOEF
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE):
CHRIST DAVID L

2. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
RETIREMENT-VOLUNTARY-UNDER CIA
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
EPELTE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
11 30 70
REGULAR
FUNDS

VTO V
V TO CF

*
CF TO V
CO TO OF
7. Financial Analysis No. Chargeable 8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
1262 2200 0000

PL 88-643 SECT, 233

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
11. POSITION FITLE
PHYS SCIEN RES CH

14: CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)
GS

18. REMARKS
1301.11

12. POSTON NUMARA
0088

TS-GRADE AND STER
16 8
13 SERVICE DESIGNATION
R

17. SALARY OR RATE
32742

NGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
FORM
3-66
1150
Use Previous
Edition

SERIAL NUMBER
059090
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
PRE--Middle)
Christ, David L.
PREPARED
22 October 1970

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
RETIREMENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER CIA
4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
DAY
TEAR
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
11 30 70
4440 PUNDS
٧١٥٧

VTO CP
CP 10 V
CF TO OP
C
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGHATIONS
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYΜΕΝΤ
Regular
8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Ofthe of
Perannel)
PL80-643
Sect. 233
7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO
CHARGEABLE
1262-2200
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DD/S&T
ORD
Applied Physics Div.
11. POSITION TITLE
Wash., D. C.

12 POSITION NUMBER
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
Phys Scien-Res-CII
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, M)
GS

18. REMARKS
(16)
13 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
1301.11
0088
16 GRADE AND STEP
16 32

R
17. SALARY ON RATE
31,857
12.
Last working day: 30 November 1970

cc: Payroll
Security
Care Batholder
Recommended for the Reserve List per
DDS4T/PRIND
F.Z. Connolly
1152 telecoord w/
SIGNATURE OF وی من اولیات FPICIAL
SIGNATURE BAR
Connolly 30 Oex 70
19 ACTION 20 FUPI07 21
FODE CODE
4510
28
MO,
NTE EXPIRES
DA

, FOB,
11/3/70.
James Connolly, ORD
11/2/70
amisonnolly
SIGNATURE OF رو من اولیات FPICIAL
م?b,
Stephen L. 18tich, w?b.
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
AALERIC
ALPHABETIC
22 STATION
C001
23 INTEGREE
(GDE

24. HOOIRS 25 DATE OF BIRTH
(008
1

MO,
DA.
26 DATE OF GRADE
27 SPECIAL
REFERENCE
SA
RETIREMIHI DATA

COUR
3 SEPARATICA
DATA CODE
TYPE
MO
DA
YK
41
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERTHVERT SERVICE
O-NO PREVIOUS! SERVICE
2-82124 SERVICE LESS THANH
3-BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN WARS)
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
من ۲۷۴

22 STATION
33 SECURITY
Fe NO
34 ١٤٢٠

FOD DATA
35 YET PREFERENCE
CODE

OBJ,CO,0,0.
CAREER CATEGORY
می
42 LEAVE CAF
CODE
43
CODE
39
5000
5120) 10NG COMP DATE
تیرا
DA
