14-00000

SECRET

16 February 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT:  AMICE/31
201-284658

Attached herewith are two copies of Subject's PRQ Part I
and one copy of a PRQ Part II. An OA is requested.

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee w/att.

John L. Hart
Deputy Chief, WH/SA
FEB 17 1 43 AM '65

SECRET

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

WH/C/RR/OA - W. Ullery	201-284658

PICO Ramon, Reinaldo
Your Memorandum, Dated
22 January 1965

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject
as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same
authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority
granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is
based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is sub-
ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

Subject's FOA is herewith extended until 30 September 1965 to allow
additional time for the completion of the OA investigation.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ
Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six
(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all
investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I
and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-
visions ceases.

Edward P. Brown

29 June 1965

SECRET

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

DATE
16 FEB 1965
CASE NO.
284658

SET UP
FOR POA
EXPEDITE INDICES
COVERT 
NAME
SPEC NCL SPECIAL
INITIAL INITIAL
FOR CA

EXPEDITE FBI

INITIAL

INITIAL

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

EXTEND FOR FOR
DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS FBIID DOSSIER REVIE

RELIEFIID COLLATERAL INFORMATION

SECURITY OFFICE REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL
DEVISION INTERROGATION FROM

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/CA

SEINSTATE FOR FOR
DAYS UNTIL

REVIEN SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

FORWARD TO
SECURITY OFFICE
✔PRO 1
ATTACHMENT

REVIEW AT CICA

CANCE PER DIVISION VEMO DATED

(No notice to Division)

FILE REPORT
J. PATERSON

REVIER ALLS REVIEL OF ATTACHED REFERENCE,
CSI AND 14.5 or see rear
FILE
REQUEST R] TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

REQUEST FIELDOOD TRACES
TICKLE
REQUEST
FINAL
SECOND
☑ FIRST
L.R

☐☐☐☐ P4C
PRO 11
OTHER

NOTE: 512M171 02114-1-143. I" 4A65475" NO FUNTER IntESEST
HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED

• FAILURE 2131 985.42125 PREDRE33C9,1: 10. I, INAL FURIER JATESS7 IS INATNING APPROYAL

FOR THE OSPERATIOMAL. USC OF 500010C1

4-3349
00419.

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

WH/SA/IOS - W. Ullery	NUMBER	201-204658

PICO Ramon, Reinaldo

Your Memorandum, Dated
SUBJECT

REFERENCE

crw

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject
as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same
authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority
granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is
based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is sub-
ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

This form has expired:

CABLE SECRETARIA DISSENATION
14-00000

PERSONUNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

1414
TOTAL CORES 1119
D

WH/3/V

SECRET
REPRODUCTION OF
THIS COPY PROHIBIT101
A
INDES

NII:

10 CCTOBER 1969

EXT: 431
1
BY
S 1
8
31,

61/4

DISSEN
 ACTION

PER 

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

TO

28
R-1/17 CA
(13

SECRET TO CA/B4

(CLASSIFI CAT

WH18
15 CCTOBER 1969

A
CONF: SECRET 

(DATE AND THE FILES)

1

263

(CITE DATE 1 AND CITE DIRECTOR JUMALIN TO F/4163 46 41.44
(REFERENCE NUMBER

SECRET 19OCTOBER 1969 2979

0

PRIORITY PANAMA TO CA/B4

L- 04113444-8

1.  1294

THE

A TO MENT AND
2794) A
AND TO
OF SUBJEC

SECRET

4874

224

SECRET

861

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NANE CHECK

TO: Deputy Director Security, IOS PRO. AREA ASSIGN.

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Suppert Division

SUBJECT:

201

-

TYPE OF REQUEST:

USE OF SUBJECT:

PROI CHECK DES
22 SEP 2
OA
CNC 

201

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:
RI:
CS TRACE RESULTS:
GREEN LIST INITIATED:
REMARKS:
TO: Chief, CI/OA
FROM: Deputy Director Security, IOS

DATE

INDICES.

693

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

To: Deputy Director Security, IOS PROJECA AREA ASSIGN.

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval

SUBJECT:
201 -
TYPE OF REQUEST:
USE OF SUBJECT:
OA 
CNC
•.44238
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:
RI:
CS TRACE RESULTS:

GREEN LIST INITIATED: 

•REMARITS:

1 19-3 -
TO: Chief, C1/04
FROM: Deputy Director Security, IOS

SECRET

14-00000

INSTRUCTION SHEET 
"

- SECRET

-

-

"

A. B.

649

163

10%

-
- SECRET

65900

8294

SECRET

14-00000

4

(classification)

191

REQUEST for Investigation And/0r Name Check

To: Deputy Director Security 105
From: Chief, CI/Operational Approval And Support Division

To.

Subject;

-

Type Of Request

A
Uae Ot Subject;

Special Instructions 
(Limitations on Investigation. Cover Pretext, etc.)

A
A

1

0

015.4. Trass Results. 11

.4744.45.4.7741175..9.-...44...-5
Qreen List Initiateol- 1/

F..

..11

..4.

's. Edward F. Brown

Chief. C1.014

I...3

44

SECRET

14-00000

.

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

Wh//c. 201 - 244658

•

"

Reinaldo F140 Remon

A Provisional Operational Approval Is - 
Granted for the Use of this Subject -set forth below.

A ProvIsional-Operat1onal:Approval 
Issued by CI Starr
grants'
the - 
same authority, or.
temporary. basis,.
the. use
of' an individual -aa . the "authority. granteal.In
Operational. Approval unless

Iand .19.aub-
jact to A further flnail, revlew.then all invaatigatian Ia .cornpletaal.

.a for tho complet-lon. or the. 0.1. 
In 1"1165 -a 1021
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

-4

"A
0%
•

-

- 4 -4

-4
.-

REQUEST fED TRACES

, 6
2464

11-

00

"

.

00

(4.40144.4

724

(44100.47.
- 224744'7 141
 SECRET
•11-

-4- -4

- -

SECRET

• 44

5447'67

14-00000
* * *
SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR.
Chief. CI/OA

SUBJECT.
AMICE/31
201-284658

Attached herewith are two copies of Subject's PRO Part I "
and one copy of a PRA Port II. An OM. is requested.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

- -REQUEST-

..

"
:
•

-4

: "8-4'

: -

"

"
•

" "
: -

- -
: "4*
SECRET
•.. " "
14-00000

" - ..

...4
-

.-:

:0:

SECRET

HECENANE-
...
"

.41

..

""
"
.-

."
SECRET.
" "

-

"

"

.4-4

.4.
*

-.. -

"

"
*

"

"" ..

"

* "
"..

14-00000

.-. 

4."

-4.
" "4.

 SECRET .

"

SECRET
- ""
 "
•

-1 " " " .4

-

.:4

" .

"
