14-00000
104-10194-10017
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
VITALE, GUY
OP FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:
PERSONNEL MATTERS OUTSIDE TIME
FRAME

DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
RECEIVED | RETURNED |
|
8 25628 | |GHETON | |
| 20 AUG 1978 | |AFEDWAY/FONZI| |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

VITALE, GUY
TERMINATEDO D

14-00000
SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER | 2 NAME (Last-First-Middle) | | DATE PREPARED
003620- | VITALE, GUY | 17 Feb 69

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION | 4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED | 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
RETIREMENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER THE CIA | MONTH DAY YEAR
RETIREMENT CIA & DISABILITY SYS | 02 28 69 |REGULAR
| 7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO | 8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
|V TO V |V TO CF |CHARGEABLE|Personnel)
6 FUNDS | |P.L. 88-643
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS |9235 0620 |Sect. 233
| TO CF |TO CP |10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDP/WH
WH/COG
OPERATIONS BRANCH
WH SECTION

11 POSITION TITLE | 12 POSITION NUMBER | 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
INTELLIGENCE ASST (3) | 1685 | D
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE GS.LB. etc) | 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES | 16 GRADE AND STEP | 17 SALARY OR RATE
GS | 0301.26 | 08 6 | $ 8984

18. REMARKS
Last working day is 28 February 1969.

1152 telecoord. w/Paul Geidel, R.D. dimw 3/3/69
INTEL ASST cecurring Intel ANALYST SLOT

1 - Finance

18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICE | DATE SIGNED |18B SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER | DATE SIGNED
Henry Berthold | |
C/WH/Personnel | |

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. | OFFICE CODING |22. STATION |23. INTEGREE |24. MOOTOS |25. DATE OF BIRTH
CODE CODE |NUMERIC |ALPHABETIC |CODE |CODE |MO. |DAY. | YR.
45 10 | | | 16 17 |

|28. NTE EXPIRES |29. SPECIAL |30. RETIREMENT DATA|31. SEPARATION |32. CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA
MO. DAY YA |REFERENCE |CODE |DATA CODE |TYPE
| SA/esis69 | |1-GSC | | | |
2-FICA | | | |

35. VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV COMP DATE 37. LONG. COMP DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. |EOD DATA |40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
CODE |MO. DAY |YR|MO. DAY |YR|CODE |FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE |
0-NONE | | | | ||||
| | | | |CPROVY TEMP || ||
| 1-5 PM |3-1| HEALTH INS CODE |

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE |41. |42. LEAVE CAT. 43. |FEDERAL TAX DATA 44
CODE CODE |1 NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS STATE TAX DATA
0-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
1-NO BREAK IN SERVICE |||1-YES
2-NO STATE CODIC
2-BREAK SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEARS)
3-BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YEARS) | | | |FORM EXECUTED CODE|
1-TES
24NO
45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION |46 OP APPROVAL |DATE APPROVED
||
||
FORM
3-67 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET
GROUP I
EXCLUDES FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRAD
AND DECLASSICATION
(4).

14-00000

SECRET
(hew Filled In

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

I SERIAL NUMBER | 2 NAME tt-rs-Middle) | | DATE PREPARED
003620. | VITALE, GUY | 17 Feb 69

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION | 4. EFFECTIVE DATE PEQUESTED | 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REFIREMENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER THE CIA| MONTH YEAR
RETIREMENT CIA & DISABILITY GYS |02 28 69 | REGULAR
6 FUNDS | A VG |V TO CF | 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO | 8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Offer of
X | CHARGEABLE Personnel
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS |CF TO V |TO CF | 9235 0620 | P.li. 33-643
|10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION Sect. 233

DDP/WH
WH/COG
OPERATIONS BRANCH
WH SOTION

11 POSITION TITLE | 12 POSITION NUMBER | 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
INTELLIGENCE ASST |(3) | 1685 | D
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. 1.A. etc) | 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES | 16 GRADE AND STEP | 17 SALARY OR RATE

GS | 0301.26 | 08 6 | $ 8984

18. REMARKS

Last working day is 28 February 1969.

1152 telecoord. /Paul Seidel, R.B. dimw 3/3/63
INTEL ASST SUP
Tacsuring
Iniel ANALYST SLOT

1 Finance

18A SIGNATURE OF REGULATING ORIGI | DATE SIGNED | 188. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER | DATE SIGNED
Hehry L. Berthold | bu
C/WH/Personnel

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19 ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. | OFFICE COONG |22 STATION | 23 INTEGREE | 24. MOOTOS 25 DATE OF BIRTH
CODE CODE | NUMERIC | ALPHABETIC |CODE | CODE MO DA YB
45 10 | | | 16 17

|28ANTE EXPIRES | 29 SPECIAL REFERENCE |30 RETIREMENT COSE |31 SEPARATION |32 CORRECTION/CANCELLATION CATA
DATA COOE ГаРЕ
DAY YA

35 VET PREFERENCE 36. SERY COMP DATE 37 LONG (GMP DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39 |EOD DATA 40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
COOE MO MO CODE
-NONÉ

41CODE |42. LEBRE CAY 43 | FEDERAL TAX DATA
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
1-NOSERVICE
-BREAR SERVICE (LESS THAN I TEARS
3-BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 1
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
21NO
44NO TAEXEMPTIONS
FORM BRECUTEO CODE
SECRET
135
1-YES
LATE TARO
3.4.69
46. OP APPROVAL
Konden
DA" APPPOVED
FORA 1152
USE PREVIOUS EDITION

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING
AND DECLASSIC&from
(4)

14-00000

JLB: 10 MAR 69
OEF

SERIAL NIWAL| 2 NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLEJ| |
003620| VITALE QUY|

13 NATURE OF DRSONNEL ACTION| 4 EFFECTIVE DATE| S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RETIREMENT VOLUNTARY UNDER CIA| MONTH DAY|YEAR
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM| 02 28 69| REGULAR

FUNDS|X |V TO V|7. Financial Analysis No Chargeable|CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
|V 10 CF
|CF TO V| CF TO EF|9235 0620 0000|P.L. 88-643
|SECT. 233
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS| 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH
WH/COG
OPERATIONS BRANCH
WH SECTION

11. POSITION TITLE| 12 POSITION NUMBER| 13 SERVICE DESIGNATION
INTELLIGENCE ASST|1685| D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB.)| 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES|16 GRADE AND STEP|17 SALARY OR RATE
GS| 0301,28| 08 8| 8984
14. REMARKS

POEM
300
1150 Use Provious
Edition

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
(4-51)

14-00000
SECRET

28 FED 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Guy Vitale

THROUGH : Head of CS Career Service

SUBJECT : Notification of Approval of Request for
Voluntary Retirement

1. I am pleased to inform you that your request for voluntary
retirement under the CIA Retirement and Disability System has been
approved by the Director of Central Intelligence.

2. Your retirement will become effective 28 February 1969
and your annuity will commence as of 1 March 1969. The annuity is
payable on the first day of the month following that for which it accrued.
You may be assured that every effort will be made to expedite delivery
of your first check following completion of the administrative process-
ing required to effect your retirement.

3. You will receive a lump-sum payment for your accrued an-
nual leave up to 30 days or for whatever amount of leave credit you
carried over from the last calendar year if that amount is more than
30 days.
0

Distribution: Robert S. Wattles
Addressee Director of Fersonnel
1 D/Fers
1 OP Files
1 Soft File
ROB Reader

OP BSD ROB/PJSeidel:jef (27 February 969)

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
(khen Filled In)
CERTIFICATION OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE Name (Last-First-Middle)
VITALE, GUY

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ATTACH TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

I hereby acknowledge the receipt of the following forms and/or information concerning my
separation from CIA as indicated by check mark:

1.- Standard Form 8 (Notice to Federal Employee about Unemployment Compensation).

2.- Standard Form 55 (Notice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees' Group
Life Insurance).

3. Standard Form 56 (Agency Certification of Insurance Status, Federal Employers'
Group Life Insurance Act of 1954).

4. Standard Form 2802 (Application for Refund of Retirement Deductions).

5. Form 2595 (Authorization for Disposition of Paychecks).

6. Applicable to returnee (resignee from overseas assignment).
I have been advised of my right to have a medical examination before
my separation from this Agency and of the importance of such a medical
check to my health and well-being.
Appointment arranged with Office of Medical Services.
Appointment for Office of Medical Services examination declined.

7. I have been informed of "conflict of interests" policy of the Agency and
foresee no problem in this regard concerning my new employment. :

8. Form 71 (Application for Leave).

9. CSC Pamphlet 51 (Re-employment Rights of Federal Employees Performing Armed
Forces Duty).
!
10. Instructions for returning to duty from Extended Leave or Active Military
Service.
Signature of Employee | Date Signed
Ring Vitste | 28 FOL. 69
Address (Street, City, State, Zip Code)|Correspondence
1730 HA L. b. Lust.D.C. |Overt |Covert
P SECRET
14-00000
SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OR CANCELLATION
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

TO: |DATE
18 February 1960
(Check) CHIEF, RECORDS AND CONTROL|FILE NUMBER
CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION|11325
CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT (For action)|EMPLOYEE NUMBER
003620
ATTN: | ID CARD NUMBER
Chief Support Staff| | OFFICIAL |BACKSTOP ESTABLISHED
REF: |COVER| DISCONTINUED
Retirement Debriefing |
SUBJECT VITALE, Guy |UNIT|

KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER BLOCK RECORDS|CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECORDS
(ORI 20-800-11)|(ОГИ 20-500-11)
A. TEMPORARILY FOR|DAYS|DATE (33 of COR)
EFFECTIVE DATE COВ| FROM SOD

B. CONTINUING AS OF COB|
SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.|SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.
(HRB 20-7)|(HHB 20-7)

ASCERTAIN THAT|NA |RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS
(HHB 20-11)|W-2 BEING ISSUED. Ok |DO NOT RITE IN THIS BLOCK|FOR CCS INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS
COVER: (HR-240-20)
SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER
RESPONSIBILITY. (HR-240-20)
SUBMIT
FORM 2688|FOR HOSPITALIZATION CARD

REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY SUBJECT IS TO INDICATE CIA AS PLACE
COVER HISTORY:
Has/Overt OF EMPLOYMENT FOR ENTIRE PERIOD,
Oct 49 Jan 57
Jan 57 Mar 60 Greece/DAC BUT IS NOT TO REVEAL SPECIFIC PLACES
OR LOCATIONS OF COVER ASSIGNMENTS.
Far 60 Present ligs/DAC

FORWARDING ADDRESS: UNKNOWN

ENPLOYFENT ADDRESS: UNKNOWN

RF/kas
DISTRIBUTION:
COPY CD
COPY 2 OPERATING COMPONENT
COPY 30/05
COPY 4 OL/TELSVC
COPY 5 CCS
CHRONO
FILE
FORM 1551USE PREVIOUS EDITION (13-20-431
B-58
SECRET
CHIEF OFFICIAL COVER, CENTRAL COVER STAFF

14-00000
SOF 20 FES 69
SECRET
(When Filled in)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION.

1. SERIAL NUMBER |2 NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)
003620| VITALE, QUY
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4 EFFECTIVE DATE S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN CIA 04. MO 022369 RECULAR
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
V TO V
6 FUNDS
CF TO V
CF TO OF
7 Financial Analysis Na Chargeable 8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

9235 0600 0000 PL 38-643 SECT. 703
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDP/WH

11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 SERVICE DESIGNATION
D

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS 18 c.) 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE
18 REMARKS
OB
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

18. ACTION 20. Employ. 21 OFFICE CODING 22 STATION 2 INTEGREE 24 HOTOS 25 DATE OF BIRTH
CODE
Code
NUNEEC ALPHABETIC CODE CODE 101617
28INTE EXPIRES
SPECIAL
REFERENCE
30
RETIREMENT DATA
CODE
31. SEPARATION
DATA CODE
32 CorrectionCancellation Data
33 SE Curity
35 VET PREFERENCE 38 SER COMP DATE 37 LONG COMP DATE CAREER CATEGORY FEDE 39 HEALTH INSURANCE 40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
COOE -NONE
FORM EXECUTED
HO 2105033
STATE TAX DATA
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
(1.18
FVD
POOTAD
22367
Usp Previous
1150
SECRET
GROUP
Excluded from automats
downgrading an
declassiation
(When Filled in)
40

14-00000

SECRET

DATE POLPAO
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION 7-FEBRUARY 1969

1. SERIAL NUMBER
2 NAME
003620
VITALE, GUY

3. NATURE ON PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5 CATEGORY EMPLOYMENT
мо
DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE
TEAR
CLA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM 23 69 REGULAR

& FUNDS. OLD TO 8 LEGAL ALTY Completed by office of
A OLD X CENTER NO CHARGE Personnel).
718
92350620 PL 83-643 Sect. 203
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
12 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDP/WI!

11 POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER NICE DESIGNATION
WACHINON, D.C.

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. IB. 1. IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRACE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE
18 REMARKS
18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE STRD
188 SAGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING CICER DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20 EMPLOY 21. ICE COOING 22 STATION INTERPE 25 DATE OF BORTH 26 DATE JE 21
CODE COSE ALPRANT
MO
M:
23
DATE ATE 31 32
32 CORHECTION CARICELATION
29. SPECIAL 29 200.239.226 0415
3312001334SEX 112812
D PREVEN PREFERENCE.
37 1 31828218 41 LLEGE
COOR CAOR 4122-2007
21. FEDERAL F1
COOE 381 COOE
FORM 1952 AND A
1152 PREDITON 4SECRET
TOLAR OATE APPROVES
140

607 144122
14-00000
17 APR 1969
69.1750.
Executive Registry
9-2024

Mr. Guy Vitale
1730 Η Streat, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20006

Dear Mr. Vitale:

As you bring to a close more than twenty-six
years of service to your country, I want to join
your friends and co-workers in wishing you well
and hoping that you find the years ahoad filled with
enjoyment and satisfaction,

It takes the conscientious offorts of many
people to do the important work of this Agency. You
leave with the knowledge that you havo personally
contributed to our success in carrying out our mis-
sion. Your faithful and loyal support has measured
ap to the high idoals and traditions of the Federal
service.

May I express to you my appreciation and
extend my best wishes for the years ahead.

Sincerely,
EC Richard Hele
Richard Holme
Dtractor

Distribution:
0 Addressee
1 ER
1 C/EAB/OS
Originator:
1 D/Pers
1. OPF
1 ROB Concur: SIGNED 2 APR 1963
1 ROB Reader C/EAB/OS

QP/RAD/RCB/PJSeidel:jef (1 April 1969)

14-00000
SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Contral Intelligence

SUBJECT : Request for Voluntary Retirement
Quy Vitale

t. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your
approval; this recommendation is contained la paragraph 4.

2. Mr. Guy Vitale, CS-08, lutelligence Analyst, Westora
Hemisphere Division, Clandestine Services, has applied for volun!
tary retirement under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation
20-50j, to be offective 28 February 1959.

3. Mr. Vitale has beon designated a participant in the CIA
Retirement and Disability System and meets the technical require-
ments for voluntary retirement under the Systorm. He is Si years
oid with over 28 years of Federal service. This service includes
over 2: years with the Agency of which 5 years were in qualifying
service. The Head of the Clandestine Services Career Service aud
the CIA Retirement Board have recommended that his application for
voluntary retirement be approved. I ondorse these recommendations.

4. It is recommanded that you approve the voluntary retirement
of Mr. Guy Vitale under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-
50]..

Robert S. Wattlee
Director of Personnel

The recommendation contained in paragraph 4 is approved:

Director of Central intelligence Date

SECRET
もこ
Encialet ace
asky
Jestasi Wat
14-00000
1 SERIAL NUMBE
003620
SECPET
(Bhenda
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
7 NAME -وما
VITALE, Guy

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT
DATE PREPARED
13 December 1965
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTIED
DAY
TEAR
12/7865
S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REFULAR
FUNDS
Χ ν τον
CP TO V
050
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
7 COST CENTER NO CHARGE.
ABLE
6235-1162
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Ophie of
Personnel)

DOP/WH
WH/C
HHard Operations Branch
PM Section
11 POSITION TITLE
GENCE
PITELLI ASST.
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. 18. tk.)
GS
TO REMARKS
Washington, D.C.
12 POSITION NUMBER
13. CAREER SERVICE DOHOΝΑ ΠΟΝ
(D)
1506
IS OCCUPATICIAN APHS
(07)
16. GRADE AND STEP
0301.23
08 (4)
ת
17. SALARY OR BATE
7553
$
From WH/C/MOB,PM Sec., 41142
P.R.A. per HR 20-21c(3) NTE December 167.
Recorded By
CSPD

18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED
188. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DATE SIGNEO
ROBERT D. CASHMAN, CAM/Pers,

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
21 DEC
1965

14 ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21.
COGE
COCE
3710
OFFICE CODING
NUMERIC
UTE EXPIRES
29 SPECIAL
REFERENCE
122767.83
22 STATION
CODE
#05015
RETIMENT DATA
COSE
23 INTEGREE
CODE
24 MOOIRS 25 DATE OF BIRTH
८००६
DA.
MO.
уа.
10/16/17
31 ジナルRATION 32 02(TION, CANCELLATION DATA
ESTA CODE TYPE
MO. DA.
26. DATE OF GRADE
21
DATE OF LEI
MO.
DA.
18.
MO.
DA.
23 SECURITY

35 VET. PREFERENCE
CODE
MONE
36. SERY. COMP DATE.
MO.
DA.
MO
27
TEAR
L.
FEDEAL TAX DATA
123LEBRE CAT. 43
CODE
14.15423166136 118811
-FEDERA TAR CATA
FEDERAL
45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
12.-23-654
46 OP APPROVAL

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
6-63
SECRET
GROUP I
DATE APPROVED
2.23.65
EXELUSTS FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING
(4,

14-00000
SECRET

MEMORANDUN FOR: Mr. Quy Vitale

THROUGH : Head of D Career Service

SUBJECT : Notification of Non-eligibility for Designation as a
Participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability Cystor

1. As you may know, we are in the process of reviewing the employment
history and current career field of all employees in the Agency to identify
those who are eligible for designation as a participant in the new CIA
Retirement and Disability System. In this process, the initial review of
each case is made by the individual's Career Service. If the Head of his
Career Service nominates him for participation in the system, this nomina-
tion is reviewed by the CIA Retirement Boari which recommends final action
to me. However, if the Head of the Career Service advises that the employee
does not meet the basic requirements of HR 20-50 for participation, I have
accepted this finding without further review by the CIA Retirement Board.
This practice has been adopted in the interest of expediting this screening
process so that those employees who are eligible to participate in the sys-
tem may be designated participants as soon as possible.

2. In your case, the Head of your Career Service has advised me that
you do not meet the requirements of HR 20-50 for designation as a partici-
pant and I have accordingly made the formal determination required by the
regulation that you are not eligible for designation. From a review of your
record it appears that the decision of your Career Service was based upon
the fact that you have 15 years or more of Agency service, but have not as
yet performed 60 months of qualifying service as required by regulation. My
determination that you are not eligible at this time for designation in ne
way affects your current status under the Civil Service Retirement System,
nor does it preclude reconsideration of your eligibility to participate in
the CIA System if you should meet the requirements for designation in the
future.

3. Should you desire further information concerning the requirements
for designation as a participant in the CIA Retirement System, I suggest that
you read paragraph e of HR 20-50 and paragraph 5 of the Employee Bulletin
dated 30 July 1965, entitled "Public Law 88-643, The Central Intelligence
Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees".

4. It is always possible that the records upon which the determination
made in your case may have been incomplete or inaccurate regarding your actual
employment history with the Agency. If, after studying the materials cited
above, you have questions regarding the determination that you are not eligi-
ble to participate in the CIA Retirement System, please feel free to contact
officials of your Career Service. They are familiar with the details of your
case and will gladly discuss them with you. In addition, you may wish to iis-
cuss your case with the CIA Retirement Staff located in Room 65-1319 Head-
quarters (extension 6001). If such discussions do not resolve any questions
you have regarding your eligibility, you may request that your case te femally
considered by the Board. However, this request must be made within 30 days of
the date of this memorandum.

untitl
Emmett D. Echols.
Direer of Personnel

SECRET

Group I
Excluded frem auto-
matis ingrading
and jeciass:ication

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled in)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Lost-Piret-Middle) |DATE PREPARED
003620 VITALE, Guy 12 December 1962
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
PROMOTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
MONTH
20 63 REGULAR
6. FUNDS vto v VTO CF 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE-ABLE8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
CF TO V CF TO CF 3232-1000-1000 Office of Personnel
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDP
Task Force W
FI/CI Branch
11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
OPS OFFICER 0683 D
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, ofc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
GS 0136.01 08 (3) $6500
18. REMARKS
Promotion recommendation attached. Fitness Report submitted previously.
Recorded by
CSPD
184/SIGNATURE/CF 188. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED
ouis
PEONESHING OFERTAL OFFICER
Louis W. Armstrong, C/TFW 1/17/63
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
19. ACTION 20, EMPLOY 21. CARE.CE CODING NUMERIC 22. STATION 23. INTE 2121 CODE25. DATE OF BIRTH
DA.
10, 11, 2142475015
28.NTE EXPIRES 23, SPECIAL DATA3 24 4101617
REFERENCE
Y.D. EOD DATA
212425
30.
35 VET PREFERENCE 36. SERY COMP DATE 37. LONG COMP DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY
MONE - 2. COGE COGE
-5 PT. CDE
41.
PREVIOUS COVERMENT SERVICE DATA 42 CODE
3 168084
3626719 21/200585
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
SECRET
205
203122-41
(4)

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled ray
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle) DATE PREPARED
003620 VITALE, Guy 12 December
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
MONTH
Dav
PROMOTION
WEAR
X VTOV
5. FUNDS
CF TO V
6.
ALTO CF
4. 02
3 COST CENTER NO. CHARGE
ABL
12
YEAR
3412341940
REGULAR
8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
Office of Personnel)
7. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 3232-1000-1000
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDP
Task Force W
FI/CI Branch

11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
OPS OFFICER (D) 0633 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
GS (09) 0136.01 03 (3) $6500
18. REMARKS
Promotion recommendation attached. Fitness Report submitted previously.

184. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED
OFFICER

LOUIS W. ARMSTRONG, C/TFV/Pers.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. OFFICE CODIN 22.STATION 2 INTECREE 24 HOOTOO2S DATE OF BIRTH2 2 27. DATE OF LEI
CODE
CODE
NUNERIC
ALPHABETIC CODE -E
DA
94
3020
28.NTE EXPIRES 23 SPECIAL30 31 SEPARATION 32 CORRECTION CANCELLATION
33.SECURITY DATA COOE

PREFERENCE24
513 310 CCODE 37.10456300
FEGLE HEALTH INSURANCE -41.0892359 39
21797 2395429479725843
45. 248853141.FEDEEAL TAX DAT 40.S922
4.8.11229

FORM
"1152
USE REVICIS EDITION.
SECRET
(4)

14-00000

SECRET
(When Falled in)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middl.) 3. DATE PMPARP
VITALE, Guy (HMI) 12 March 1962
003620

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION MONTH DAY
62
REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO VOUCHERED 30 16
FUNDS REGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE-ABLE
Office of Personnel
6. FUNDS X
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
v to v v TO CF
CF TO V CF TO CF
2235-1400-1000
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH
Branch 4
FIÍCI Sec. Washington, D. C.

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER

Gence 16. GRADE AND STEP D

INTELLA ASSTX GS 0301.28 07(3) 5685
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 17. SALARY OR RATE

18. REMARKS

From: DOP/EE/CS/Dev.Compl., D.C.
11/6/62
713/26/463003