14-00000
104-10221-10026	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNIT: COD/DLC/Cov
EXT: 5265
DATE:24 MAY 65
FILE RID
IORI
CDO INDEX
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET/RYBAT

FILE IN C/S FILE NO.
DISSEN BY
PEH-	S
FROM: DIRECTOR
EXT:4475
RID COPY
TO
CLASS FICATIONS
SECRET/RYBAT
1
HOUTING
3
4
5
6
7
8
DESTROY	RETURN TO	BRANCH
INFO: VA	FILE
	DC/WH/C 5, D/SECURITY,

DATE AND TIME FILED
(FILE)
REFERENCE NUMBER
32999
1610102 CITE DIRECTOR
L

JHAVE
LYRAS, CHAPPIE WYZNEJEN PANGEN SECURE
KEP JEAVE 2812 (86315)*

BASED OF YETECH OF ITO DEVELOPED BY WOLGE INVESTICATION,
SUBJECT REP NOF CONSIDERED SUITABLE FOR FUTURE USE ON WITHRUSH.
SXSWIRL RETEST LOT DESIRED. CA BEING CANCELLED.

END OF MESSAGE
* Requested Mars, reconsider use of
Antonio (2010) (SCIC) Vazquez Vazquez on WITHRUSH

294544
SOD/AZ/G3 Jim Smith (telecon)
SOD/AP/023 3 Larry Murphy (Draft)
CI/OA Dick Ruffner (telecon)
03/H/03/ID Lou Vasaly (telecon)

R J. Goodhart
• Chief, Support Staff, EOD

COORDINATING OFFICER
	COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET/RYBAT

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.

14-00000

TO:
CHIEF, CI/OA
SECRET
REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION
FROM: (Division) (Case officer) (Extenaion)
SOD  W. Wainwright 1475
SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt or true may be used)	NAME SHOW IN:
SOTO-Vazquez, Antonio

(LAST)
(FIRST)
(MIDOLE)
CI/CA NO.
201 NO.
SOURCE
PROJECT

90192	294544
DATE OF DIRTH
PLACE OF DIRTH

WI THRUSH
AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD

20 August 1934	Hava, Cuba
IS ATTACHES.	DILL BE FORDANOLD

REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION
1. It is requested that CA on Subject be canceled as he is of no further operational interest to this office.

Thank you for your assistance in this case.
2. Green List Name Check canceled as of this date.
			
2 September 1966
SIGNATURE
SEP 6 1 25 AM '66
William T. Wainwright
937	IF SURVEY IS USED IN ANT CAPACITY NSUL BCL-EST FOR APPROVAL VILL SE SUNITTED TO CI/CA	(10)
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
2010 No.
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SCD/A3/OPS/3 Larry Murphy

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of
SOTO Vazquez, Antonio______, for the purpose specified in your request
dated 8 December 1965

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CEI and CSI-F 10-5.

/3/ Edward P.Echrom
Date: 14-December-1965 CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Distribution:
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files
SECRET

FORM
11.44 124	REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS	(101

14-00000
SECRET
PRO NO.
PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART 11 OPERATIONAL INFORMATION
INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER
DISPATCH NO.
1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available in
formation, is not to de shown to the subject.
2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an Approval unless requeter furnishes answers to all questions
in PRO parts 1 and 18. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ape-
plicable provisions of FR 10-285. paragraphe 60. 8. 126 and 12d. Thereafter the sound method to document or com-
plete the case must be followed as ant forth in FR 10-215.
3. Three (3) completed copies of PRO part 1 (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) com
pleted copies of this form must be sent to headquarters, as soon as possible.
4. Data arquered later must be sent to headquarters in PRO. Format in 200 (2) copies.
5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." 11 additional space required
for iten, use reverse side of page hayed to appropriate item number.
1. CRYPTONYM	2. PSEUDONYM
T/N Antonio SOTO Vazquez
SECTION I CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT
1. INDICATE HOW, WHEN, WHERE, WHY, AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

Subject submitted job application to Roberto Medell. (principal
agent, WITHRUSH, Miami, Fla.) on 25 March 1965 for job as WITHRUSH pilot.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SCOURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR
HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOV
Subject could be turned over to any resonsible case officer, A
knowledge of Spanish and aviation would be most helpful.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR SUCH HE ASONS DR A GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE
OLLA ANOON-
George N. Sohl known to Subject as Gerald Saunders.

10504	1
SECRET

14-00000

SECTION 11 MOTIVATION. AND CONTROL
ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION, (Be detailed, it ponnable cile evidence Do not use stuck coberut auch "....
Financial, desire to maintain flight status, and to a losser
degree, political (anti-Castro, anti-communist).
2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control
explain.)

No real control exists over Subject other than financial. His
resident alien status could offer a factor of control if authorization
were granted for this maneuver.
SECTION 11 COVER
1. COVER USED SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER
THEIR MEETINGs. The principal agent represents himself
as an employed of the WAVE Case officer who in turn is documented as an
agent of the Gov't of the Republic of the Congo However, IfUTER..
Gov't interest is overtly manifested, it is realistic to assume that Subject
suspects U.S. Gov't collusion in, if not outright sponsorship of the operatic
2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

NA
3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THANKS HE (Will work) (IS working).
In all probability Subject is or will become aware that the GOC ain
program is under sponsorship by KUBARK,
SECTION IV	INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING
1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT
SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

None known.
2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agongs, rofataves. friends) PHO KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PALSENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIS

Probably wife.
3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
None known.
SECTION Y COLLABORATION POTENTIAL
INDICATE OTHER FORETON PORER SUBJECT BONIO OF MOST LIKE TO COLLAND WITH BECAUE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OF PAST
ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

None.
2
SECRET

14-00000
SECTION VI OPERATIONAL USE CONTACT

LT HAS S BEEN USED OR CONTACTED MORE INDICATE ACTIVITY. IN WELL MIDAS EASON AN INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED
NA
2. INDICATE NON AND FROM HOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

NA
3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION ME FURNISHES.

NA
4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSETO FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
NA
5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP.PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

As a pilot only.
SECTION VI PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY
1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPENATIONAL USE

4. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
NA
B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY:

NA
SECTION VIII	AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT
1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: 1.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE SWIDEN: REMUNERATION, IF ANY: AGENCY
PERSONNEL KNOWN TO 3.BJECT.

Subject under ostensible contract to GOC, although presumably he
knows the project is being sponsored by the U.S. Government.
3
SECRET

14-00000
SECTION IX QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATION 3
INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OF QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUAJELI MICH COULD CONCEIVABL DE IF VAL
R OPERATSIONS.

He is a qualified fixed-wing and helicopter pilot.
SECTION A	COMMITMENTS
1.11 13 PROPOSED TO PAY SURSECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEERLY AMJUNT, IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN ERCHANGL
COMMODITIES, SUOSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.
Subject's contract calls for base pay of $800 per month, $10 per
flight hour over sixty hours, $10 per flight hour which is considered
hazardous, Contract additionally contains life insurance up to $40,000.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT (Zemple: Commitments regarding evacuation
of subject and family.)

SECTION XI	CE AND SECURITY
None known.
I. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES IT WHICH SUAJECTS NAUL HAS HELN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS

WAVE Station, FBI, INS, Credit, Miami Police and Igs files.

2. INDICATE USSIER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL MON FURNISHED AV SL:BJECT.
Nono.
3. INGICAIL WILL THER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL EP.
4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED
PROVAL FOR SUBJECTS USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

Yes. POA	21 May 1965
3. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, HELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIして、

Subject believed reliable with no known adverse character traits.
No known security problems to date.
5. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCHTTIon thani SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVEO WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A
CEZOPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT

None,
SECTION XI SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS
1. Ust OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.
No known excessive habits,
4
SECRET

14-00000
SECTION RI AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS
140104185:38 Mosaiks 2 INTEREST IN SPORIS, MUSIC, ETC.
SECTION XIV	GENERAL
Aviation.
INDICATE THE THER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE
OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS CAN.
EXPLAIN,
Catain Central American countries.
2. INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AND IT WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES.
CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.
PRQ Part I supplied by Subject; Part II by cheok of files by caso
officer.
IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED. IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTIO, PLEASE EXPLAIN.
sce parn. 4.36, supra)
None.
(A10
SECTION XY	EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS
1. GIVE FULL OCTAILS 1.E. RECORNITION SIGALS. S/W AHERE COULD CONTACT HE MADE WHAT BONA FIOLS COULD INDIVIDUAL
MAKING CONTACT USER
NA
SECTICH XVI	MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS
DATE	2 December 1965
SIGNATURE OF APPROPNTAFE SENIOR OFFICER
	Lawrence Murphy
5
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
CATE
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
10:
FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA
(al Edward P. Brown
BATE
BJECT
IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPHOVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRO I REVIEW OFA
008810
DOSSIER
XPRO II REVIEW OF STAV 8 COLLATERAL INFORMATION
FIELD TRACES REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CI/DA
RI TRACE'S REVIEW OF SEC. OFF, CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/04
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION, TRACES REVIEW OF 101 REPORT AT CIOA
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION XXOTHEAS (B Remanke

GREEN LIST
Please submit PRQ.

FOX expired on

Part II. If, within 30 days, no further interent in Subject has
been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled.
FORM 889a SECRET (20)
3-65

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA	30 AUG 1965
SUBJECT 201-294544
#242 369

SECRET
Reference is made to our previous memorandum furnishing you
with National Agency Checks results and confirmation of completion
of favorable domestic Meld investigation conducted in connection
with your consideration of Subject for an Operational Approval.

As noted in our previous memorandum, mitten reports on the field
Investigation were to be turnished to your office at a later date.
Attached hereto you will find the above-mentioned reports. No
further action la contemplated in this matter.
	Victor H. M. Bark.
Deputy Director of Security

Enclosure:
INV. RFT. DTD. 6/29/65

SECRET

14-00000

SEGRET
FILE NO. 242 369
DATE 29 June 1965
SYNOPSIS

Antonio SOTO has been employed periodically
by Eagle Incorporated, a steamship company, since
1961. He has been utilized as a warehouse checker.
SUBJECT has left his employment to accept short
time flying jobs. Ile left Eagle Incorporated in March
1965 to accept one of these flying jobs. Four de-
veloped references favorable regarding habits, morals,
reputation, and loyalty to the United States. No
credit or police record in the nance of SUBJECT or
his spouse.
SEGRET
REPORT NO.
1125 FORM
1125 402 11234 AMERICA 1
7.da

14-00000

File #212 369	SEGRET
EMPLOYMENT:

At Miaml, Florida
(Eagle Incorporated)

On 22 June 1965 Sam KRATISH, secretary-treasurer,
800 N. E. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed regarding Antonio
SO™o. The informant stated that "Tony" has been employed
by the firm periodically since 1961. SUP CT has been
utilized as a warehouse checker for the steamship com-
pany. He unloaded cargo coming to and from the United
States. He was an excellent employce, and although he
has left on several occasions, he is always eligible for
rehire. The informant stated that SUFCT is also a pi-
lot and formerly flew in the Cuban Air Force. He has
had several part time or temporary flying jobs which of-
fer him cocd pay. When these Jobs arise the firm allows
SUBJECT to leave without jeopardizing his standing with
the company. SUBJECT left in March 1965 to accept another
one of these flying joth. The informant stated that he
did not know where these Jobs were located, but believed
that they are usually out of the United States.

REFEFZ ACES:
At Meal, Florida

On 22 June 1965 Sam KRATISH, previously identified,
was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference.
The informant stated that he considers "Tony" SOTO to be
a reputable and honest individual. He has been associated
with him on a professional basis since 1961 and his assoc-
lations have all been satisfactory. SUBJECT to an excel-
lent worker and is completely honest. The informant stated
that he has often left SUBJECT alone with valuable cargo,
and that there has never been any dispute over SUBJECTIO
trustworthiness or integrity. 32JECT 18 a Cuban exilo
who left Cubs because of the CASTRO regime. SUBJECT has
never espoused any political ideologies while he has work-
ed at the firm, but the informant steted that he is aware
of the fact that the SUBJECT is anti-CASTRO and that he
is favorably disposed towards the United States form of
-1-
SEGRET

SEGRET
File #242 369
government. The informant stated that he knew nothing
that he considered to be unfavorable regarding SBJECTS
character

On 22 June 1965 J. C. WILDER, supervisor, Fagle
Incorporated, 800 N. E. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed re-
garding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The inform
ant stated that he has been acquainted with SUBJECT since
1961 on a professi nal basis. 3UFJFCT has been & ware-
house checker periodically since 1961. His main line
of work is flying, and he was formerly & pilot in the
Cuban Air Force. However, after CASTEC took over the
island SUPEJECT fled and has worked at several different
locations flyin. on a part time basis. When SUEJECT does
not have a job flying he always comes to the company, and
because of his good work habits he is always hired. The
informant stated that SHEJICT left the company in March
1965 to take a fot flyin, at some unknown location. The
informant stated that he has found SU-JICT to be plea-
sant, completely reliable, and a man of Integrity. There
18 no question of his morality or solriety, and the in-
formant believed that SUBJECT was loyal to the United
States.

On 22 June 1965 Carlos MARTHER, export manager,
Eagle Incorporated, 500. E. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed
regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The inform
ant stated that he has been acquainted with SUBJECT since
1961 on a professional basis. During that time he has
never noted anything of an unfavorable nature regarding
SUBJECT'a character, morality or sobriety. He is a hord
working and sonscientious individual and is diligent and
reliable. He last worked for the ocmpany for approx-
imately six months in 1964 and 1565 and left in March
1965 to take a flying job at some unknown location. the
informant atated that he has never heard anything to indi-
cate that SHEJECT had any Communistic tendencies whatsoever,
and he believed that SUBJECT was favorably disposed to-
wards the United States.

At Hlalean, Florida

On 22 June 165 Mrs. Marie RODRIGUEZ, 1260 Weat
60th Terrace, was interviewed regarding SRECT as a
developed reference. The Anicrmant stated that SUBJECT
-2-
SEGRET

SECRET
File 242 369

and his family resided next door to her for two years
from 1962 to 1964. She found 3MCT to be happily
married and stated that he was a decent and clean living
person. He was formerly a pilot in Cuba, but had to
flee Cuba because of the CASTRO rele. The informant
believed that. SUBJECT was favorably disposed towards the
United States government. She added that she could offer
no criticism of his personal conduct, morality or so-
briety. She added that all of her associations with
SUBJECT have been satisfactory.

On 22 June 1965 Mrs. Mary DTENER, 1280 West 60th
Terrace, was interviewed regarding SMEJECT as a developed
reference. The Informant stated that she lived next
door to SUEJECT and his family for two years and found
them to be good neighbors. They were Cuban refugees
who fled Cuba because of the CASTRO reime. SUBJECT
was a pilot in Cuba, but could not find work flying here
in the United States. As a consequence he worked for
a firm on the cocks in downtown Miami. SUBJECT's rep-
utation in the community was good, and the informant
believed that he was a respectable Gentleman. She stated
that she believed SUE JECT was appreciative of being able
to live in the United States, and she never heard him
criticise our form of government.

CREDIT:
At Mami, Florida

On 10 June 1965 records of the Credit Bureau of
Miami were reviewed in the names of SEJECT and his
spouse and no record was found.

POLICE:
These files cover Hialeah, Florida.
At Mami, Plorida

On 10 June 1965 recorde of the Dade County Public
Safety Department and the Miami Police Depertment were
reviewed in the names of SPJECT and his spouse and no
record was found.

At Hislean, Florida
SEGRET

SECRET
File #242 369
On 10 June 1965 records of the Hialeah Police De-
partment were reviewed in the names of SUBJECT and his
spouse and no record was found.
AAT/anh

-4
SEGRET

SECRET

ATE
INSTRUCTION SHEET
8 July 1965
INDICES
294 514

SET UP
FOR POR
EXPEDITE
INDICES
SET UP
SPECIAL
FOR DA
INQUIRY
COVERTHE
NAME
CHECK
AREA
ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL	T	REQUEST GREEN LIST
ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL	REQUEST RESULTS FI/D DogsIER REVIEW
EXTEND POA FOR 	DAYS UNTIL	RITES COLLATERAL INFORMAT
REINSTATE POA FOR 	DAYS UNTIL	REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL	AEVELN SECURITY OFFICE
INTERROGATION FROM		REPORT AT CIVDA

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION	REVIEN SEOUMATY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/04
FORWARD TO	ATTACHMENT
SECURITY OFFICE	REVIEW AT CI/04
CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED	LCPLUTTER REPORT
CANCEER CI/DA 8NOTICE TO VISION	(Reason chachett helow. es set remarks)	REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED NEFERENCES
ADVICK CICA OF NATURE AND GIGNIFICANCE
REQUEST N1 TRACES	FILE
REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND SIVIDSON THACES	TICALE
OTICE
REQUEST FIELD TRACES	PLASE SUDMIT PRO II,
FUNTER INTEREST
HASSCENINDICATID, POA BILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED:
PLEASE SUERIT PRO, #1544 OR TO INDICANTINOPLAINING APPROVAL
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT..
12:1

:H/F. This caso we discussed with th. Brown/C/CI/OR

Ball also conferred with J. Scanlon/SOD/Sec. and F. Farrel/SOD/Case Officer/
who reviewed the Eyes Only data and other information of record. It was determined that
in view of the Subject already being in the Field on his second tour and the type of
operation(PM) involved that the derogatory nature of the information would not preclude
his continued use. SCO however is to forward a memorandum to this effect for CI/CA
files.
44-00000
SECRET
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND OR NAME CHECK
10: Deputy Director Security, TOS 14 Apr. 1965
FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval 
and Support Division
PROJECT AND AFASSIGNT
Jev
WITHRUSH
SUBJECT: 201-294808242369  SOD/AB/OFS/3 Congo
TYPE OF PIGURIT
(Date) (2010)
141 CHEER PEDELED or
ECIAL INSTRUCTION 
Apr 27. 1965
Pilot WITHRUSE
(Limitations on love
cover prée
NDI	HDI  MAVE

GREEM LIST thitlarFD. APR 12 01911 65
POA
10: Chief, CI/CA
FROM: Deputy Director Security, IOS
Is! Sdward P.. Brown
HEB

DATE 6/25/65
30 OCTO
2. Checks were conducted at the indicated agencies with negative results:
1.96 Indices results: 24251	WR ethes tham pour cefeet miteiste
FEI OI	ACSI  STATE   csc   OSI   HOUA  Polo
3. Checks were conducted st, the toploying Agencytes) with positive results,
reports attached Fall4/11/15), 120, OSILEGIONLY)
4. Digestic Field Investigation has been completed, reporte attached.

5. Domestic Field Investigation favorable, reports will follow within 60 days
7 0000 
The resueto Joihind will be forwarded from
sever
1165
693 SECRET

FILE NO. 242 369 DATE 26 May 1905
SYNOPSIS

*168008
File at Immigration and Naturalization
Service, Kiami, Florida shows that one Antonio
SOTO (Vazquez), who was born 20 August 1934 in.
Cuba, arrived in the United States at Daytona
Beach, Florida on 1 January 1959 and he departed
from the United States at Miami, Florida for the
Dominican Republic on 20 June 1959. He again ar-
rived in the United States at San Juan, P. R. on
18 August 1959, using name and passport of one
Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez), which he ex-
plained by saying the could not get visa in own
name due to service in Cuban Air Force during
BATISTA regime. His foreign departure from Miami,
Florida to Guatemala was verified 28 September
1959. Father of SUBJECT said to be in jail in
Cuba in 1959 for participating in attempted in-
vasion of Cuba. SunJECT arrived in the United
States at Miami, Florida 11 January 1951; his for-
elen departure from Miami, Florida was verifled
25 February 1961 and he main arrived in the
United States at Slant, Florida 21 May 1961. He
was granted Re-Entry Permit in October 1963 for
travel to Republic of Congo, Dackground data set
forth.
PORK NO
NOV S REPORT NO.
1125

File #242 369

GENERAL:
At Miami, Florida
The records in the District Office, Immigration and
Naturalization Service, 51 S. W. First Avenue, which were
checked on 19 and 24 May 1965, were found to contain file #
A-11 263 189 pertaining to one Antonio SOTO (Vazquez), AKA,
Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez), who arrived in the United
States at Daytona Beach, Florida on 1 January 1959 in a Cuban
Army airplane. He was said to have been born on 20 August
1934 at Havana, Cuba; to be the son of Antonio SOTO (Rodriguez)
and Julia RosA VAZQUEZ (Acosta) and to have resided in January-
February 1959 at 1409 South Ridgewood Avenue and at 129 North
Halifax Avenue, both Daytona Beach, Florida. In February 1959,
his address was given as 35 N. E. 68th Street, Mand, Florida
and his foreign departure from Miami, Florida to the Dominican
Republic was verified on 20 June 1959.

30TO again arrived in the United States at San Juan,
Puerto Rico on 18 August 1959, at which time he presented
Cuban passport #02042 in the name of Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ
(Alvarez). Upon interrogation under oath by Immigration and
Naturalization Service at Miami, Florida on 18 September 1959,
SOTO admitted his identity as Antonio SOTO (Vazquez); stated
that he could not get a visa in his own name in Cuba because
he had been in the BATISTA Covernment as a Captain in the
Cuban Air Force and that he would refuse to tell how he ob-
tained the passport in the name of Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ
(Alvarez), ile said that he came to the United States to try
to help his father who was then in jail in Cuba. He identi-
fied his wife as Dolores Inocenta BECERRA (Garcia) and gave
their address as 6711 N. . 2nd Court, Miami, Florida. He wan
represented, ed, for Immigration purposes, by Attorney Ralph H.
AGUILERA, 668 Dupont Plaza Center, Miami, Florida. A notation
in the file in August 1959 set forth that SUBJECT's father,
Col. Antonio SOTO, "was the man who had recently piloted the
invasion plane from Dominican Republic to Trinidad, Cuba",
was shot in the fighting and was in a prison, hospital in Cuba.
The foreign derarture of SUBJECT from Miami, Florida to
Guatemala was verified on 28 September 1959, after he had
been, ordered deported by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service for fraudulent entry. In December 1959, his address
-1-

File #242 369
was given as 6th Avenue #1221, 8th Piso, P. 0. Box 918,
Cuatemala City, Guatemala.

Antonio 30TO (Vazquez) again arrived in the United
States at Miami, Florida on 11 January 1961. He reported
that he had Social Security #265-64-6892; that he had a bro-
Miami,
ther-in-law, Fidel RODRIGUEZ, 440 S. W. 5th Avenue,
Florida and that he (3070) intended to reside at 5703 North
Miami Avenue, Miami, Florida. His foreign departure was
verified at Kiami, Florida on 25 February 1901 and he again
arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 24 May 1961.
In August 19ól, his address was 143 N. W. 39th Street, Miami,
Florida.

On 18 October 1963, SUBJECT was granted a Re-Entry
Permit by the Imigration and Naturalization Service so that
he could travel to the Republic of the Congo as an employee
of Caribbean Aeromarine Company, P. O. Box 755, Miami, 43,
Florida. He again arrived in the United States at New York,
11. Y. on 4 May 1964 and in September 1964, his address was
listed as 1270 West 60th Terrace, Hialeah, Florida.

In September 1964, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service was advised by the U. S. Department of State, hosh-
ington, D. C. that. SUBJECT had applied to the American Con-
sulate, Toronto, Canada for an immigrant visa. The U. S. De-
partment of State was advised by the Immigration and Naturali-
zation Service on 1 October 1964 that SUBJECT appeared "to
still be excludable".

Additional information concerning SUBJECT is said to
possibly be contained in the files of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.
The above records were also found to contain file
A-12 542.006 pertaining to one Dolores Inocenta BECERRA, who
arrived in the United States at Mami, Florida on 15 October
1960 and who may be identical with the wife of SUBJECT. This
person was sald to have been born on 28 December 1939 at
Havana, Cuba; to be married to one Antonio SOTO, 5703 North
Miami Avenue, Miami, Florida and to have a brother, Sergio
BECERRA, 147 N. W. o8th Street, Miami, Florida.

The above records were also found to contain file
-2-

File 2.2 369

A-11 821 502 pertaining to one Julia Rosa VAZQUEZ (Acosta),
AKA, Edelma Farina SANCHEZ (Izquierdo), who may be identical
with the mother of SUBJECT. This person was said to have
been born on 16 April 1909 in Matanzas Province, Cuba; to
have arrived in the United States at San Juan, Puerto Ricc
on 18 August 1959 with a Cuben passport issued to one Edelma
Marina SANCHEZ (Izquierdo) and that she admitted this pass-
port to be false insofar as she was concerned. In September.
1959, her address was 65 N. W. 60th Street, Miami, Florida
and her foreign departure from Miami, Florida for Cuba was
verified on 2 October 1959. She again arrived in the United
States at Miami, Florida on 5 October 1960 and gave her ad-
dress as c/o her daughter, Cecina 30TO, 4413 N. W. 9th Street,
Miami, Florida.
FHH/eph

FILE NO. 242 369 DATE 17 June 1965

SYNOPSIS

Developed reference in 100 block North Hali-
fax Avenue, Daytona Beach, Florida, advised that the
reported former residence of Antonio SOTO (VAZQUEZ)
was owned and occupied by Cuban General BATISTA at the
time. Informant advised neither she nor others in area
would have any knowledge of SUBJECT. Inquiries in 1400
block South Ridgewood Avenue unproductive, incorrect
address furnished. Credit and police, no record.

REPORT NO.
FORM
1125

#242 369
REFERENCES

At: Daytona Beach, Florida:
On 11