140000
104-10074-10095
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

19-2.

CONTINO

5

X

7

OMF
AGE
ACP
TOC
TPE
MRO
0
0
0
G
0
0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
27
PACE
2
STAFF
CONF:
ㅈ
DATE-TIME GROUP
2623072
crs
DIRECTOR
ROS/BASE REFERENCE UUDIS
516053
INFO: FL
C/IPS/ITES, C/OPS 0
INDEX
DISSEM BY: 353
FILE
Lil
ILA ADDS Cben, EROR, Chiono
BUENOS AIRES
RYBAT MHSPIKE
*CABLE SEC SUGGESTS
DISSEM TO C/DCD
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 511359*
B. DIRECTOR 507298**

1. FYI ONLY. IT HAS JUST COME TO OUR ATTENTION THAT DOMESTIC
CONTACT DIVISION (DCD) IN JANUARY 1974 INTERVIEWED STEPHEN VAN CLEAVE,
PRESIDENT OF INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, LTD. A PRIVATE FIRM, ON HIS
PREVIOUS TRIPS TO ARGENTINA. THE MEETING RESULTED FROM VAN CLEAVE'S
REPEATED REQUESTS TO MEET WITH DCD REPRESENTATIVES. VAN CLEAVE'S
INTERVIEW DESCRIBED MAINLY HIS ACTIVITIES IN ARGENTINA TO ORGANIZE A
SECURITY FORCE FOR COCA COLA. POUCHING STATION COPY OF REPORT.

2. DCD HAS BEEN BRIEFED ON POTENTIAL PROBLEMS FOR BUENOS AIRES
STATION INHERENT IN VAN CLEAVE AND COUNCIL FOR THE AMERICAS INVOLVE-
MENT WITH ARGENTINE FEDERAL POLICE ON MATTERS RELATED TO TERRORIST
KIDNAPPINGS, AND IS ADVISING THEIR FIELD OFFICES TO AVOID CONTACT,
WITH VAN CLEAVE IN FUTURE.

3. FILE: 4-4-36: 200-6-484/3. E2 IMPDET.H

DATE:
ORIG:
CIT:
EXT:

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

PRODUCTION OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E2 IMPDET

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF
ACP
TOC
TPE
MRO
0
0
0
0
0
0
CLASSIFICATION

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DATE TIME GROUP
CITE
ROS/BASE REFERENCE
UH COMMENT: * REPORTED TRIP TO WASHINGTON, D.C. AND MIAMI BY VAN O
CLEAVE AND TWO ARGENTINE POLICE OFFICERS.

**ADVISED THERE NO HAS TRACES ON VAN-CLEAVE WHO HAD
STATED THAT HE WORKED FOR C.I.A. IN LATIN AMERICA
UNDER COCACOLA COMPANY COVERS, AND THAT HAS HAD NO
INTENTION ANY USE OF VAN CLEAVE.

DCD/OSS: LILLIAN I. GRANT (TELECOORDI)

DC/OPS/ITG: BILL CANTRELL (CIN DRAFTS)

DATE: 26 FEBRUARY 74/1525, HRS.
ORIG: DAVID H. DEUHURSTYKN
UNIT: CH/4/AR 03 B.
EXT: 1926

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E2 REPOST
