14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

15 September 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Services Staff
FROM: Charles A. Briggs
 DDO Information Review Officer
SUBJECT: Appreciation
1. As you know well, on September 19th, I turn over
responsibility for release or denial of DDO documents under
the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts. The experience
has been both frustrating and challenging, epitomizing the
issues in transition from a totally classified past to a new
intelligence environment yet to be defined. The tension in
law between protection of sources and methods and more open
government was apparent, daily, to those involved; good case
law was made as we sought to adhere to both principles and
to regain, through this process, some credibility for the
Agency.

2. I've tried in the past to convey my appreciation
for the truly magnificent support I got from what is now
the Privacy and Information Action Group, through recommenda-
tions for the Unit Citation subsequently awarded by the DCI,
through QSI's. and promotions, and through personal comment.
All have worked long hard hours and all, those now in PIAG
and those who have left, deserve credit for their professional
efforts in this arena; I want to express my thanks to you for
the assistance your people gave to me as the DDO Information
Review Officer.

3. At the risk of being unfair to some who are more
recent arrivals, I want to express particular and very
personal thanks to Win Brown, Cis Cass, Lou Dube, Mary Felton,
Doris LeBaron, Fred McCann, Karen Rice, Helen Stilson, Jon
Wolfe and Mack Wood,

4. My debt to Fred Randall and Andy Addona has been
made a matter of record on several occasions. Let me jus t
note here that any supervisor who has had the kind of
qualitative backing that those two gentlemen gave me is
fortunate indeed.
For OPF, Randall, Frederick

COCOCOPOL 
GINTY
CON TRIAL

5. In addition to the PIAG crowd, Paul Haefner's people
have had the endless and repetitive job of searching the
CHAOS files and helping me deal with that most sensitive
aspect of past history. Please express my thanks to them
and, most particularly, to Paul himself.

6. Finally, let me make special note of the contributions
from Joe Gigliotti and the retired officers handling the OSS
records requests. Their particular expertise was a welcome
addition to the staff support received.

7. I'm sure all will give Bob Owen, in his new role,
the same high quality support that they gave to me. To state
the obvious, although the win record is quite good, the race
is still on.

Clule
Charles A. Briggs

OCOSTAL

14-00000
C.Prep

det
SECRET
(when Folund los)
DATE PREPARED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
(1st--Middle)

17 MAY 1976

1 SERIAL NUMBER
:
012170
PASDALL FPEDERICK. C
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
05
:
YEAR
:
PAT
:
FROM

NATURE OF PERSONNES ACTION

REGULAR

PROMOTION

23 76

7. FAN AND NSCA
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
¥1000
:
FUNDS

0
62262196 0001
:
Personnel)

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDO/SERVICES STAFF
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF, SERVICES STAFF
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

11 POSITION TITLE
:
WASHINGTON, D.C.
OPS
OPERATORS OFFICER SAS
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. L.B. IN.)
GS
:
:
(15)
18 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01

12 POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
EV 27
:
DAW
16 GRADE AND STEP
:
17 SALARY OR RATE

150
:
$3659
18. REMARKS

psi due sarnesiote
DAC to DAW

18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTNOG OFFICIAL

All I Membe

Alec T. Morroe
C/SS/Personnel

DATE SIGNED

: 17 May 76
188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DPO/CMZPE
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
19. ACTION
CODE
20 DEPLOY. 21. STATION
1008
ALPHABETIC
22 10 53050 SE
COVE
75013
22. LATA
231NTEGRAFER CODE
MO-DA.
24 NNOTES 25 MATE OF BIRTH 20 DATE OF GRADE
DAY

EXPIRES

19
MM M
DA.
YA.
MO. DA
VA.

5/18/76

: KLeste

: 28/15/36/05/23/7605/23/76

DATE SIGNED
DA.
"
:
31 SEPARATION 32 (00: CARCELLATION DATA
DATA CONE
PE
TYE
A4
DAJA COOF
PO 20
33 SECURITY
200
T
(4
: 1-71074
31.8
SA
1-7100117
A -DO/NETI/
FATA
PREVIOUS (STITI -
44 1-8393
POBATA O EVE -
44
-
L - BALUNY
POSITION CONTROL CENTRALAION
C5-19-711
1152
LOUC CARCE
1-
1009904
210225-116/OPT
LEGAL MEALTHURANCE
CODE
1-75
3-89
21030 C PAMPOL
21 MAY 1976
SECRET

43 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

DATE AFPROVED

14]

0640
COGENOTAR STATE COOD
CL BY
011078

11
E2 IMPDET

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

12 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, DDO Evaluation Board
THROUGH: C/CNG
SUBJECT: Promotion Recommendation - Frederick C. Randall to GS-15

1. This memorandum constitutes a formal recommendation that Fred
Randall, GS-14/8, now Chief of the DDO Privacy Information (DDO/PIC)
unit in Services Staff, be promoted to GS-15. The position calls for
that grade.

2. Mr. Randall is 49 years of age; entered on duty in CIA in
September 1951 as a GS-7, assigned to OSO/FDZ. He is married; has four
children, served briefly in the Air Force (1945-46); has an AB in
Government, an AM in Foreign Affairs, and was a PhD candidate in
International Relations. His Agency service was in FE from 1953 to
1965, including overseas tours in Djakarta and Tokyo; in DOD/FRD
from 1965 to March 1975, including 2 years in the DC field office;
his current assignment dates from 16 March 75. His date of grade is
June 1967.

3. The specifics of Mr. Randall's current assignment and all the
superlatives about it I have just recounted in a fitness report which
I prepared today, as well as in a QSI recommendation (approved) of
October 1975 and an out-of-cycle promotion recommendation dated
8 August 1975. I rate his performance Outstanding and refer the
reader(s) to the reports cited for details. I would note here that
Mr. Randall changed his home base and functional category in November
of 1975 and was rated number 1 of 4 Category C nominees from this Staff
by all four members of the SS Panel. I would note further that when
I submitted my August 75 out-of-cycle promotion recommendation, Mr.
Randall's career designation was B/OG; given his personal circumstances
the DDO suggested that Randall change his career designation to become
more competitive "and have an excellent chance on the next go round."
The QSI suggestion then resulted.

4. As the individual responsible for releasing or denying
thousands of DDO documents in response to FOIA requests, and subsequently
answering for DDO decisions in affidavits and court depositions, I know
how well Fred does his work and how richly he deserves this promotion to
GS-15.

Charles A. Briggs
Chief, Services Staff

CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY 011078 E2 IMPDET

14-00000
EYES ONLY
SECRET
(When Filled in)
REPLY REQUESTED
DATE

SPEED LETTER
TO :
DDO
:
ATTN:

15 September 1975
LETTER NO.
YES
NO
FROM:
Chief, Services Staff
SUBJECT: One-Time Reclama - Requested Randall Promotion

As you know, OB is not reticent about expressing his views, and in the informal
career development world, Fred had had it in FRD. I've known OB fairly well and re-
spect his candor and professionalism; we just worked very well together on the GS-
16/17 Panel, with an interestingly identical philosophy. Fred's performance did not
satisfy OB, and his Fitness Reports reflect that fact. It does not surprise me, since
Fred had been in FR from 1970-1975, that his Fitness Reports for the past years would
put him in a neutral middle, or even low middle, ranking among B/OG officers. But
that's yesterday.
Today, as I tried to say strongly in my 8 August memo, my view of his work is
that it is Outstanding--and I don't so rate many officers. I would hope his present
work could stand on its own merit, and project forward, expecting FOIA to be a way of
life in the DDO with all the management challenge, and headache, that poses. His
present and future peer competition should be with the A/C crowd, not the B/OS group--
if that hurdle is determining.

At the risk of being irritating, I feel bound to state his case in what I con-
sider the appropriate competitive environment, to avoid an out-of-cycle suggestion
doing mischief to the system. Any hope?

1831
:
REPLY
EYES ONLY

RETURN ORIGINATOR
SECRET
DATE

SIGNATURE

14-00000
SECRET
)
1. SERSAL NUMBER
012170
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
2. MAME (Loss-First-Middle)
Randall, Frederick
3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Reassignment
4. FUNDS
Correction

3 NATURE OF
AGLA 00
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDO/FR Division
Branch III
DATE PREPARED
7 January 1974
$ EFFEC-FIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH DAY
YEAR
7. FAN AND NSCA
4229-0249-0001
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

-3%
"
974.00

12.4
(Completed
Regular
7.
the original action where Item 7, Fan and NSCA
was listed incorrectly.

"
148 SIGNATURE of CARRER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DATE: SIGH
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PER

14-00000
S-E-C-R-E-T
FR 73-228
6 JÚN 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
: Appointment of Mr. Frederick C. Randall
SUBJECT: as Chief, Branch III, Foreign Resources
Division

1. The appointment of Mr. Frederick C. Randall as
Chief, Branch III, Foreign Resources Division, effective
on or about 11 June 1973, is recommended.

2. Mr. Randall has been an employee of the Agency
since September 1951 and is presently assigned to Branch
II, Foreign Resources Division, as the Desk Officer in
support of Los Angeles and San Francisco Bases. A copy
of his biographic profile and the last two fitness
reports are attached.

Attachments:
Walter L. O'Brien
Chief
Foreign Resources Division

Biographic Profile (Parts 1 and 2).
Fitness Reports (2)

The recommendation in paragraph 1 is APPROVED:
Date
Deputy Director for Operations

ER MPDET
CLAY 057223
S-E-C-A-E-T
13-3717
14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

8 August 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT: Out-of-Sequence Promotion Recommendation:
Fred Randall

1. We've spoken of the need to look further at both Agency
and DDO implications of the Freedom of Information Act and, now,
the Privacy Act, including the increased number of appeals and
litigation cases, and of the logic of collecting a coterie of
deponents or affiants to take some of the load off of both you
and me. The grade level of the appeals officers and the deponents
must include 14's and 15's, to incorporate the necessary clout
with the divisions and judgment vis-a-vis release of information
to the outside world.

2. Fred is a GS-14/7. He had just come to me at the time of
the last GS-15 panel exercise and had not been recommended for
promotion by FRD. I consider his performance over the past 6 months
to have been Outstanding. He is head and shoulders above the other
directorates' FIOs; I have considerable laudatory testimony from
OGC, OLC, O/DDA and within the DDO as to his professionalism, tact,
persuasiveness, analytic skills and realistic, while tough-minded,
protection of DDO sources and methods. This includes occasional
arm-wrestling with DDO branch/division/staff chiefs, OGC and OLC
lawyers, FBI contacts and others above his current grade level.

3. I have discussed this proposed out-of-cycle promotion
recommendation to GS-15 with Ev, who, in turn, has mentioned it
to Gordon. The return signals I got sounded positive.

4. I do, therefore, recommend that you, approve Fred's promotion
to GS-15, effective as soon as the action can be cut.
/s/ Charles A. Erlags
Charles A. Briggs
Chief, Services Staff

CONFIDENTIAL
0171

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

17 NOV

MEMORANDUM FOR: Frederick Randall
SUBJECT : Quality Step Increase

1. My congratulations on the award to you of a
Quality Step Increase. This award is in recognition of
superior sustained performance and reflects great credit
on you and the job you have been doing.

2. I am confident that your future performance
will be of continuing high quality.
With personal best wishes,
William E. Nelson
Deputy Directer for Operations
My congratulation too. I kuur.
Wow well desowed tal is. 다
is alre symbolic of the ealle
f yous
مسل
COGE HOTAR STATE Coo
your group
temp
مدل
whole
youn lennukis et.

44
APPROVED
14-00000
SECRET
When Find (n)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

MAKE (Last-Fort Middle)

ATE PREPARTO

:

9 October 1975

1 SERAL NUMBER
RANDALL FREDERICK

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT CHANGE OF HOME BASE
AND GARMEN CATEGORY
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTH
12/01/75

COE

:

REGULAR

.FAN AND NSCA
:
6226 2196 0006
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

PUNOS

FONAL
63551
LEG
LEG

10.
: WASH., D.C.
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIONATIONS

DOO/SUNLONG STANSS
OFFICE OF THE CHIED SERVICES STAFF
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF
EV27

(15) 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
DAC

11 POSITION TITLE
OPS

OPERATIONS OFFICER SAS

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LA, en.).
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

GRADE AND STEP SALARY OR RATE
365502 33126

0136.01

14 7 8

18 REMARK

I agree to change my home base and career category from 'MG" to "AC"
CONCUR
. 11/28/75
FAVPERS

Predict all

Frederick Randall

9/27 15

Date

LA SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED

15 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

01315930501 SS
ALPHAPRTIC
22 STATION
7013

31871
43 CODE
POFM PRCIND
SECRET

31
14]
14-00000
Confidential
ATTACHMENT B
NEMORANDUM FOR: Frederick Randall
SUBJECT : Acknowledgment of Evaluation Board
Career Category
REFERENCE : Evaluation Board Precepts for Your Grade

1. Based upon an examination of your assignments and duties,
and after considering likely future assignments, you have been placed
in the following career category for Evaluation Board purposes. Precise
definitions of the categories are contained in the Evaluation Board
precepts for your grade.

CATEGORY C

2. If you believe that you have not been placed in the correct
category because the substantive content of your job more closely
approximates another category or because you have made a permanent change
of career track, please take the matter up through your command channel to
secure the concurrence of your Home Base component to a change of your
category. Previously assigned and acknowledged categories will remain in
effect until a fully executed acknowledgment of change is received by the
Career Haragement Group.

3. A category change should not be initiated for the period of a
temporary, training or rotational assignment unless a permanent change of
career track will follow.

4. Please sign. and date this notification in the space provided
and return it to your Home Base component through command channels.
ACKNOWLEDGED:

Laudall
Signature of Addressee
9 Act 1975
Dat

Confidential

14-00000
SECRET
d ful

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
I SERIAL NUмаев
012170
NAMt (Last-Forms-Middle,
RANDALL FREDERICK

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
CHANGE OF FAN MUKLANT MA

4. PUNDS
A OLA

SPECIME DATE REOUTSIED
DAV
YEAR
0508 75
7 FAN AND NICA

: 5226 2196
S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR

• LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by User of
Personnel)
1000
:
OLAM
OLA

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDO/SERVICES STAFF
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF, SERVICES STAFF
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE
OPS OFFICER AS

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 1.8, m.)
GS

10. REMARKS
12 POSITION NUMBER

(IS) EV27

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
IS GRADE AND STEP

01:36.01 14 7
13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
DMG

17. SALARY OR RATE
: $ 30699

184. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

Afu I. Morise
Alec T. Monroe
C/SS/PERS

DATE SIGNED
18 May 75
13 ختم کد OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
K. Leali
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE GIFICE OF PERSONNEL
1929. ΕΩΡΙΟΥ. 21.
1000

DA,
CO01
DATS SIG
5/8/75
20
10 128196

MO.

27

DATA

こ
23 SEPARATION 354 CANCER CATA
DATA COCE
TYPE
41
COCE
C1-1893
<501243981773)
1-
327

43 CP
SECRET

14-00000
5
153745
SECRET
The Find la
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

4 March 1975
1. SERSAL NUMBER 2 HAME (Leads)
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 4 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
012170
RANDALL FREDERICK
MONTH DAY YEAR
Reassignment
3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
-5%
80 71 75
* PEGULAR
7. FAN AND NSCA
& LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office at
Correction
FUNDS
003
522621930000
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDO/FR DIVISION
BRANCH II
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
Wash DC
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
OMC
SALARY OR RATE
11. POSITION TITLE
OPERATING OFFICER SAS (13) POSITION NUMBER
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS LB..) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
GRADE AND STEP
GS
0136.01
14
7
$ 30,699
S REMARKS
1.CONCUR Pob Conners telecon/4 Mar 75) CONCUR Henry Nalton (telecon 4/3/3)
FR Division
cc to payroll
security
E03CIMATUNE OF DATES & SIGNEO - OF CAPBER VICE APONING
"17
SECRET
DATES OMEN
123/72

14-00000
SECAET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
TO NAAL
(Les-Pirs-dle)
1270
FREDERICK
3 MATURE OF PERSONNEL AUTION
Reassignment

198
7
8700
34.
1-421
SECRET
32.339.
07 193
==