104-10179-10121 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
(When Filled In) NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY CUBA Marked None REPORT NO. TDCS -3/490,978.

SUBJECT STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER DATE DISTR. 24 OCTOBER 1961
OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT
DATE OF OCTOBER 1961 PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
INFO 15-17
PLACE & ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961) REFERENCES IN 11257
DATE ACQ. 9
APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO. FOEL 30,995

SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES
IN CARACAS". 24

1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO

DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN

EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA,
INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO BE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL
RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED
BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33
TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.
RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE OPPOSED TO CASTRO,
THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT
PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

SECRET CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USA OCI ONE OCA OAR OO EXO FBI
&NS TREASURY REPC INCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FROM: 1389 32
VAAR FVIOove
EDITONA.

3/90