14-00000
104-10165-10084 
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
E 2 INPDEY CL BY 007622 CONFIDENTIAL A1412377
(When Filled in)

RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE REQUEST FOR SECURITY CHECKS
FROM: Cearance Support Branch, Personnel Security Division
TO : Domestic Contact Service, FO: MILANI (MOCabria)
SUBJECT'S NAME Last First Midifle
CISIEROS Rogelio Vencosiso US CITIZEN ALIEN
OS FILE NUMBER
532 652
DATE
27 May 1973
20 October 1972
OTHER NAMES USED INCLUDING MAIDEN, ALIASES, ETC.
CISKEROS Max, Rogelio Wenceslav

THIS NOTICE IS VALID THRU 1978 USE OF SUBJECT DURING THIS PERIOD BY OFFICES OTHER THAN DCS
(Maj-Yr. (except those having prior interest) MUST BE COORDINATED WITH DCS.
1. Reference is made to your request for security checks on the Subject person. If the identifying information furnished is erroneous in any
wzy, this division should be inmediately. Quecks based upon erroneous information ore incalid.
2. The necessary checks have been completed and no pertinent information has been obtained except as noted below:
CITIZEN:
Passport data attached.
Subject was last favorably investigated in
Denied Area Case: FBI Check was completed. Other NAC's were completed.
This office has no objection to Subject being used in accordance with: DCT's memoravium dated 25 November 1961
Summary of noteworthy information is attached for your consideration in determining the extent and bred of your use of Subject.
ALIEN: This is not an approval for this alien's access to classified information.

FBI bas no objection to your preliminery contact with Subject. (Resubmit with full biographic date if contect is to continue.)

FBI has no objection to continuing contact with Subjoct. Pertinent information has been devloped, and is attached.
3. This advisory on investigative results is for contact purposes only and is not to be construed as a clearance of Saljert peason beyond that.
4. Coordination of prior covert interest:

Not necessary No objection interposed by
Please contact
5. Remarks

FOR DCS/HOS USE ONLY
APPROVED/SECRET

FORM 2941 USE PREVIOUS Chief. Personnel Secunjy Division 3-DCS/HQ
2-70 EDITIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
SUBJECT:
LATE:

The passport file of SUBJECT in: naze as shown above; or under)
the variation was reviewed at
the Passport Office, Department of State, with the following results:
EIXTH: On 3- at

PASSPORTS ISSUED:
Post recent-me issued ca at
for (tire) 2 travel to or residence in
for purpose of
SPOUSE: Hane ; born at

on Married (date) and
narriage not terminated; or terminated on dae
Kever Harried
FATHER: Name
Born at onf
If foreign born, U. S. citizen: Yes No Deceased
MOTHER: Kaze
Born at en
If foreign born, U. S. citizen: Yes No Deceased
PERMANENT RESIDENCE:

KAILING ADDRESS:
OCCUPATIO0:

Previous Over
rife at FC, Suitland, M., (Check if applicable)
"X" in circle indicates verification of information on Bio Act. Any discrepancies
or variations are written in as shom os Passport application.

14-00000
E 2 EXPOET CL ET 607622 CONFIDENTIAL A141237

than Failed Int
DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE REQUEST FOR SECURITY CHECKS OS FILE NO.
(OS Use Onl

TO : Clearance Support Branch, Persoand Security Division, Office of Security

FROM Domestic Contact Service, FO: MIAMI (NMOstrie) DATE 20 October 1972
SUBJECT'S NAME First Hiddle US CITIZEN ALIEN
CISHEROS Rogelio 1 Wenceslao

OTHER NAMES USED INCLUCING MAIDEN, ALIASES ETC
SEX DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
CISNERES Diaz, gaseshav
: AV
Male 20 March 1927/Camaguey, Cabe 265178: 6136

CITIZENSHIP (Country) NATURALCATCA MEER, PLACE AND DATE ALJEN REGISTRATION NO

US (Beturalized) 9260415/16Land, Florida/July 1963 CITIZENSHIP
FULL NAME CATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
SPOUSE
FATHER
MOTHER

FROM TO PESIDENCES - COMPLETE ADDRESS (Current and Lact 5 vears)
1963 1969 549 Deleon Deive, Kloni Springs, Florida
1969 Present 264 Palmetto Drive, alami, Flocida

155050 EXPLORVENTS Current and bact 5 years
EMPLOYER'S NAME ADDRESS
FROM TO

1972 Precent Rolme Trading Corporation 5574 S.V. 8th Street
Coral Cables, Florida
1570 Δες 1972 Colombia Institute of iσαγωγή 5.
Miami, Florida

FROM TO EDUCATION College, Graccoste Park) DEGREE AND MAJOR
NAME OF SCHOOL

PRIOR US GOVERNMENT SERVICE INCLUDING MILITARY
OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY CLEARANCES HELD NEW REQUEST
RECHECK

REMARKS OS NUMBER AND DATE (lf & rechock,
€532 652- 22 Καν 67

26 OCT 1972
FORM 2941 USE PREVIOUS 4-DCS/HQ
2-70 EDITIONS
CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
F-14-12-37
Miame appre
CONFIDENTIAL
(Thee Filled In)

DATE : 22 Acrember 1967
MEMORANDOM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT : CISKERCS Diaz, Rogelio Wenceslav
#532 532
1. This will confirm our report that the FBI interposes no
objectice to the proposed interrogatica of the Suject alien and is
to inform you that secrity checks on Subject have been completed.
2. The FBI has requested that they be advised if information
of an intelligence nature, which may be of interest to that Bureau,
is developed as a result of the contexpiated interrogation.
3. This is not a security clearance of this person.

4. Any additional inforcation we have obtained is attached arč
is sübuitted for your confidential use only. It is not to be dissexi-
nated outside of CIA.

CONTACT APPROVED
(ALIEN)

FORM Rider R. Kotish
E, PERSONNEL SEE FITY DIVISION
Office of Security
CROMP
CBSOLETE PREVIOUS
1998 CONFIDENTIAL (4.40)

14-00000
DATE
18 October 1967
TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO: SERVICES DIVISION

ROOM NO. BUILFANG

REMARKS
Fora 180 attached on:
Rogelto Wenceslav CISKZROS Diaz

Mini Field Office/Acharneco

FROM: ROOM FOL BUILDING EXTENSION
-241
