2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL KEVIESED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUNE: ELITART CAMPUZANO, ACUSTIN 
287-7271/18

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED: 4:00 1011675
DATE RETURNED:
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): PAT ORR
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: PHON

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

SECRET

NOTE: See instructions on were aside of tore.
Type or print. Guide for use of 261 avat0010 contained in CSHB
70-1-1, Chapter 11t. Annes B、

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: RID/201 Section
FROM: MARIE

TUBE STATION: DW6
DATE

BRANCH

CHECK 2-4 FOR 201 REQUEST. DO NOT CHECK
1. 201 NO...
7. NAME
(Last)

10. TYPE NAME
(Last)
2. EXCLUCE TRUE MAME FROM MACHINE LIST
YES
3. JOB NO.

(First)
NAME VARIATIONS
(First)
FOR ION:
4. ION NO.
8. SOURCE DOCUMENT

(Middle)
11. DATE OF BIRTH 12. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 13. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
16. ORGANIZATION OR INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION
17. OCCUPATION (Clear text)

18. ACTION-DESK
20. CRYΡΤΟΝΥΜ

21. COMMENTS

22. SIGNATURE

FORM 11831 
SECOND
6-73
RESTRICTED
PHONE
4.
PERMANENT CHARGE
6. DATE

SEX
14. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE
19. SECONDARY DESK

YES
PHOTO
NO

(Middle)

15. CITIZENSHIP

CODE

CODE
CODE

23. IDN- 201-

SECRET

(30)

---

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FRING

1 Fill in Sect 2 on back. Detach bisk lap
and forward to RID
2. Restroy front cover sheet, unless it rewrds
sunithan! action taken or comments requir
ing preservation
FROM: RID
AUSTO BOR
IPAS
.4239

CX-374
CAS
73 077
10 ACTION BRANCH

Il tie no and mie shown are not proper,
insert proper hie ze below and forward
document to RID AN.
TO ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECRACK IF APPROPRIATE
CONVENIS
TO
ROOM
NO.
1.
DATE
RECENTO D
FEB
163 1972
Clank:

Marshall
Finch
OFFICERS
INITIALS
3 Feb R
NUMBER.
06s

1 FEB 1872000

FILE TITLE

201727418
DOCUMENT DATE
10 J 72

RID FI
TRACE
smot

DATED
$100
...
SECRET

UFAA 03733

( 1000

---

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
TO: Chief, Western ileatsphere Division
ENSO
FROM: Chief of Station, WH/Miami
PTYPIC/Dario Guitart Manday 더
REF: UFAA-3718

1. As stated in the reference, AMGAME-1 claims that
Guitart has relatives living in the U.S. The AMOTs were
asked for any information they might be able to provide on
such relatives. Forwarded herewith is a copy of OTA-3909
with information available to the AMOTS on the two individual 18
they believe to be Guitart's half bro Agustin G a
Campuzano and Miguel Antonio Guitar Campuzano. Al880207
t
included is information on Guitart's mistress, Har Har Juarez
Fernandoz. There are no Station traces on either of the brothers.

21 Station traces on Mar JUAREZ Fernandez indicate that
she is the head of the Ichthyology Department of the Oceano-
graphic Institute. In February 1967 a refugee source reported
her to be the assistant to Guitart in the Plankton Department
of the Oceanographic Institute of the Cuban Academy of
Sciences, and one of the founders of the Institute of
Oceanology. She had formerly been a professor of biological
sciences at the University of Havana. In 1966 she was given a
UNESCO scholarship to study in an unidentified European country
but the Cuban Government did not give her permission to leave the
island. In 1966 she was nominated to attend a convention in the
USSR but again was not given permission to leave Cuba. She
has been opposed to the regime since 1963 and was anxious to
leave Cuba.

Ruth P. JUDKOVITZ

Attachment:
ОТА-3909, h/w
Suminary of Information, h/w

Distribution:
Zat's G
CROSS REFERENCE TO
5
3-C/WHD w/atts h/w
CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFAA-3736
DATE: TYPED: 10 January 1972
CLASSIFICATION: SEGHET GUITART 201-737418

---

INFO
SUBJECT
DISPATCH

ACTION R
C
Dief, Festorn Hemisphere Division
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
TYPIC/Dario Guitart Manday

REF: UFAA-3718
C
PROCESSING ACTION
MACKED FOR INDELING

NO INDELING NQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDELING
MIKROFIRM

1. As stated in the reference, AMGAME-1 clates that
Guitarthaa relatives living in the U.S. The ANOTs vere
asked for any information they might be able to provide on
such relatives. Forvarded herewith is a copy of OTA-3909
vith information available to the AMOTS on the two individuals
they believe to be Guitart's half brothers, Agustin Guitart
Скликало and Miguel Antonio Guitart Campuzano. Also
included is information on Guitart's mistress, Mar Juarez
Fernandez. There are no Station traces on either of the brothers.

2. Station traces on Mar JUAREZ Fernandez indicate that
she is the head of the Ichthyology Department of the Oceano-
graphic Institute. In February 1967 a refugee source reported
her to be the assistant to Guitart in the Plankton Departesut
of the Oceanographie Institute of the Cuban Academy of
Sciences, and one of the founders of the Institute of
Oceanology. She had formerly been a professor of biological
sciences at the University of Havana. In 1966 she was given a
UNESCO scholarship to study in an unidentified European country
bat the Cuban Government did not give her permission to leave the
island. In 1986 she was nominated to attend a convention in the
USSE but again vas not given permission to leave Cuba. She
has been opposed to the regime since 1963 and vas anxious to
leave Cuba.

CROSS REFER TO
Attachment:
OTA-3909, h/
Summary of Information, h/w

Distribution:
3-C/WHD w/atts h/v
Ruth P. JUDKOVITZ

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UPAA-3736
CLASSIFICATION: SEGAL!
DATE: TYPED: 10 January 1973
HOS FILE NUMBER: GUITART 301-

---

VIA: RAI

FROM: J/IEO

TRANS: 1-37

SUBJECT: Dario GUITART Manday

REP: OTS-1517,3 Jan 72

1. In accordance with your request, we are forwarding traces on
relatives of Dario GUITART Manday (or Mandey) who are residing in the U.S.:

a. GUITART Campuzano, Agustin:

Professor of physics at Xavier University, Dept. of Phy-
sics, New Orleans, Louisiana. 70125, D.S., phone number
488-6646. Resides at 3605 Louisiana Ave., Pkwy, N. Orleans
Louisiana 70125, phone number 821-1307. He is married to
Helena TORO Abril and has the following children, Dr.
Agustin Ramon GUITART Toro, married to Daisy FOX Padron,
Jorge Miguel GUITART Toro (single); Vilma Helena GUITART
Toro, married to Dr. Edmundo P. ROBAINA (identical with
Dr. Edmundo P. ROBAINA Grasso, a lawyer); and William
Clark GUITART Toro, married to Giselle MARTINEZ de la To-
rre. Source: Cuban Families Year Book, 1969-70, issued
by Joaquin de POSADA.

Married to Dr. Elena TORO Abril. Has a degree in Physics-
Mathematics and Physics-Chemistry. Professor at Havana
University. Resides at 1502 64th St. at the corner of
15th Ave., Ampliacion de Almendares, Marianao, Havana Pro-
vince, phone number 2-7571. Children: Agustin, Jorge,
Vioma Helena and William Clark GUITART Toro. Member of
the Club of Cuban Professionals. Source: Nuestra Sociedad
social directory by Jose Manuel VALDES Cruz, 1958, publish-
ed by "Diario Nacional," page 471.

at #Illi te UFAA-37.56 CS CO

---

-2-

A12 884 999. DPOB: 25 Apr 1910, Cardenas, Matanzas Pro-
vince. U.S. address: 509 W 178th St., Miami, Fla. Ad-
dress in Cuba: 1502 64th St., Marianao, Havana. Entered
the U.S. at Miami on 16 Feb 1962 (PAA 422). Occupation
in Cuba: Professor of physics. Visa waiver. PP-38810
valid until 28 Aug 63. 5'6" tall, 162 lbs. Married to
Elena TORO Abril. Source: Immigration card.

Doctor. Member of the Revolutionary Teachers Directory.
Resides at 4009 Elba St., New Orleans, Louisiana, U.S.
Source: List of members of the New Orleans Delegation of
the Revolutionary Teachers Directory, 20 Jul 63.

Professor of Physics at the School of Sciences of Havana
University. Source: Cuban Personalities File No. III/57.

b. GUITART Campuzano, Miquel Antonior

Professor of mathematics, Physics-Math Dept., Alabama
College, Montevallo, Alabama 35115, U.S., telephone num-
ber 665-2521. Resides at 204 N Ashville Circle, Monte-
vallo, Alabama 35115, U.S. phone number 665-2506. Mar-
ried to Emma Rosalia TABARES Gutierrez. Children: Miguel
Horacio GUITART Tabares, married to Berenice LANCIS Paz,
and Emma Eloisa GUITART Tabares, married to Emilio CERICE
Rivero. Source: Cuban Families Year Book, 1969-70, issued
by Joaquin DE POSADA.

A12 496 264. DPOB: 11 Oct 1908, Toiupa, Mexico. U.S. ad-
dress: 1250 sw Sixth St., Miami, Fla. Address in Cuba:
8408 187th Ave., Fontanar, Marianao, Havana. Entered the
U.S. at Miami on 19 Oct 61 (BWA 414). Occupation in Cuba
professor of mathematics at Havana University. PP-22512
issued on 22 Jul 65, valid until 22 Jul 63. Visa waiver.
Married to Emma TAVARES Gutierroz (identical with Emma Edoisa
TABARES Gutierrez) who resides at the same address. Source:
Immigration card.

Resides at 204 N. Ashville Circle, Monteavallo, Alabama.
Father of the refugee Miguel H. GUITART Tabares who arrived
in the U.S. on 10 Apr 70. Ref: PIR C-080-056.

2. Please, note that Agustin and Miguel Antonio have the matro-
nymic Campuzano while Subject's matronymic is Manday or Mandey. This
makes us believe that they are half brothers (children of the same father).
Also note that reports indicate that Subject was born around 1923 while
Agustin and Miguel Antonio were born in 1910 and 1908 respectively. Their
difference in age is around 13 years. Agustin and Miguel Antonio were
reported as being brothers of Dario GUITART Mandey by Orlando BAMBU Fer-
nandez (A17 362 397). On 20 May 1966, JAMBU provided data to prepare a
Summary of Information on Dario GUITART Mandey. In this Summary (we are

---

OTAS 909

-3-
attaching a copy in Spanish)., JAMBU identified Agustin and Miguel Antonio
as Agustin and Miguel Antonio GUITART Mandey. He did so probably because
he did not know that they are half brothers who have different matronymics.
We are certain that the individuals reported by JAMS are Agustin and
Miguel Antonio GUITART Campuzano because they have the same occupations.

3. We are also forwarding a copy in Spanish of a summary of In-
formation on Mar JUAREZ Fernandez who has been identified as Dario's
mistress and as head of the Department of Icetology of the Institute of
Oceanology.

4.
A In our opinion, Agustin and Miguel Antonio GUITART Campusano
could provide information on Dario and explain whether they are half
brothers..

CS COPY

---

-00000
NUNCIA
A:
TO:
SUBJECT:
JUARE FDMmdos.

Jara dol Departamento do Zetiologia del Instituto
do Coccnologia, do la Academia de Ciencias.
PERSON
: Dr. Orlando Stay Fernandos.
Conoco a la Pufoto dosdo 1948, aprox.

1. So acompara un "Sumario do Informacion sobre la Sujets, do
couerdo con las informaciones suministradas por la Fucato, cea rocha
20 Mayo 1936.

CS COPY

att #2 ili to UFAN-3736

---

-00000
SECRETO

SUMMARIO DE INFORMACIO

FREIRA MACE:
1. Kcabro: RES Fornandez.
2. Lugar y Fecha de Nacimiento: Camachor, Prov. Camaguey, Cuba; 1923,
aproximadamente.
3. Direccion:
a. Astual: Fedade, La Habana, Cuba.
b. Permancats: ( nioma).
4. Estado Civil: Divorciada,
5. Otros nombres que usa: (Ninguno).
6. Fuosto Actual: Jora col Departamento do Ictiologia del Instituto
7. Parientes:
da Cecanogracia, co la Academia do Ciencias.

2. Fadres: Desconoco.

b. Hermanos: 1) Ler JUAREZ Fernandez, kombra, nacida en Ca,aguey,
Frov. Cammy, 1940, cppox.; rasa blanca; ProCoco-
ra de Dibujo en la Escuela Normal para Maestros, de
Camcucy, Prov. Camaguey. Ignora iasologia politica.

2) Enrique JJAREE Fornandos, nacido en Cemarusy, Prov.
Caraguay, medico. Ignora caad, idcologia y otros
datos.

3) For JUARDZ Fernandes, hembra, nacida en Ca,aguey,
Frov. Camqucy, (ignora odad); Doctora ca Pedagogia;
Integrada al regimon. Ignora otros datos.
DUL
4) (Tomb. dese.) JUAREZ Fernandes, varon, abogado; na-
cidcon Campusy, rov. Camagucy; ignora edad y otros
Satos.
c. Esposo: Divorciada. Ignora nombre y generales col que fuera su
coco.

d. Hijos: No tiene.

8. Idiomas:

a. Hativo: 31.

b. Extranjeras: Ingles (regular).
Suso (lo estudia).
9. Descripcion Fisten:

---

-00000
c. Estatur, p.
d. Peso: 175 1,
6. Complexion: diar
2. 2010: Catano uro, lac15.
C. Ojos: Pardos, grandes.
h. Tös: Trigwns.
1.Prorna do in cara: Oveido.
j. apariencia jasral: pia; noruel.
k. Ropa: Normal, sencilla.
1. Caracteristicas: Dien formada, fisicaconto.
m. Hareas de Identificacion: Wingura visiblo.
10. Porsonalidad, Caractor y Costumbres:
a. Personalidad: Hodiocre; normal; no os muy tratablo para con los
dezas
b. Caracter: la veces extrovertida, poro sin llegar a ser afeblo.
normalmente.
c. Costumbres: Gusta usar collares y arotos do argollas.
11. Situacion Economica:
a. Antes del 1959: Dovengaba un suoldo mensual de 90 pesos.
b. Posterior a 1959: Actucimento devenga 'un sueldo de 360 pesos,
monsuales.
c. Propiedades: Desconoco.
12. Curriculum Vito: (Resume).

a. Estudios Cursados: Doctora en Ciencias Naturales, graduada on
la Universidad do La cabana, en alrededoros
del 1950.

b. Historial de Empleos: Fosco el cargo actual o on iguales funcio-
nos desde 1951.
1948-61: o Ayudento de Catedra do la Fa-
cuited do Ciencias do la Universidad de La
Habana.
13. Actividades Politicas y Revolucionarias:
A. En el Institute: Kingara.
b,En la Universidad: Wingna
6. Hasta 1959:

d. Posterior a 1959: :1 Lado del regimen, dobido a qus su aranto,
Dario CUIDARD ander (adopto al rogimia) 03-
ta con dicho regimen,
0. Actualmente: Con el regimen, siguiendo al azanto antes mencionado.

---

-00000

SEO
11. Viejos change: Denodness.
15. Nosividades do IntelMusic: Dingma,
16. Contactos y Amigos: Desconcos.

17. Debilidades Porconales: El monte, Dario GUTTART Kender, Director
col Caticuto 6000canegraria, co
la cadenia de Ciencias.

SECUNDA PARTS:
16. Cuales son los lases és amistad entre la Fuente y el Sujeto?
plique dosde que fecha so conoce, quo grado de amistad han tenido,
000.
Conoco al la Sufoto Sesão 1940, apren.; cicuro co llevaron dien,
considerando la usato que la fuente era amiga dol Sujoto.
::
19. Ha estado la fuente sa contacto con la Sujeto despues do que la
Evento abandono Cular Cuando suo la ultima que tuvo la fuente cont
tacto con la Sujetor

Despues do que la Fusate camione Cube, no ha ostado en contacto
con la Sujoto. De ultima vos quo in Puente vio a la Sujeto sus al
15 Octubre 1955, en al Instituto do Desanologia.

20. Cree la mato de que se pueda reclutar a la Sufoto? Do razones
amplias si es que si 3 quo 10. Si la Fuente cree que si en que se
basa?

Estima la Puerto de que la Sagoto es una fiol seguidora de su
to, Dr. Daric Gurmand andoy, adorto al regimen, por cuya rasen la
Sujeto es tambien adepta al reginça.

21. Si la Ruonto no erce que la Sujeto pucca ser reclutada a base do
Ideologie politica, Cirero, cas., conces la Fucato a alguma perso-
na o incidento o debilidad persenal ca el pasado co la cajeto
pudiera corvir para presionerla al reclutamiento? De devallas.
22. Sen las relaciente entro la Fuente y cl Sufoto co tai, tipo que per
itan a la "ucate hacer contacto cea la Sujoto para traser ca 2-
clutarla: Biosas, estaria la tuents dispuesta a laser contacto
con la Safeto, af se presentara is oportunitat, cavo es, in case Co
que la Sajoto caliowa do Cuba y estuviera en posicion de poder ha-
cor centasto

ס כוסס ססבנטי גן כנתס cociera reaccionar la acto denues de cu
Coleccion del sito que en el is stubbs 1955, 123
Selpoionta entrosaches partithan cualquier contacto. Por su parte,
lento cau dispuesta a poster cuiquier contacto en cualqu
mento, cufondo mastrucciones al respects.
-

---

-00000
SECRETO
23. In cao do in Puente cosa que el no con la persona apropiada para ha
סטונסס מססo con 24 Sngate, ex. la Fuente a alguna obra persona
que pudiera para hacer contacto con i ujeto para tra
כי שם עברclutaria? Si es sei, co una descripsien completa do esto
Indivično o indique sus relaciones con el Sufoto.
20.
24. Uchoco ic Fuente a alguica en Cuba que octo on pordelen do hacer
comuneto con of Cajeto parיבובים בe reclutamie? Do una dosorip-
chon com cota do cate cujeso e indiquo cus relaciones con ol Sujo-
1
to a capt
No.
25. Dates biografiĉos do la Frate:

a. Nombre: Orlamic JABU Fernandes.

b. Polce: A 17 362 297.

c. Lugar y Fecha de Hacimiento: Rogla, Frov. Habana, Cuba: 24. Enoro
1923.

d. Direccion on Cuba: Callo 35-4 No. 118, Miramar, T... Maricnao,
Prowana.

---

GX 274 AUSTIN RO
GUITART-CAMPUZANO, AGUSTIN
201-72741S..
SEXN DOB -24 APR 10
POS CURA CARDENAS.
TYPE NANET
CIT CUBA...
OCC CODE PROF

S-E-C-R-E-T
RES USA PROF, XAVIER-UNIVERSITY, NEW ORLEANS, LA--D01--JUN-63- 100019000
REQ-40-543 QUERY NO.050 S-F-C-R-E-T

---

PORM 0-325 A REV. 4-1-C7

FORM APPROVED
BUDGET BUREAU NO. 43-8438
BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(FAMILY NAME): GUITART
(FIRST NAMEI: YVIKLIAM
(IMIDDLE NAMEI: CLARK
United States Department of Justice
Immigration and Naturalization Service -SEC. 1, PL 89-732

MALE: 
BIRTHDATE (MO-DAY-TR: JUNE 26, 1941
NATIONALITY: CUBAN
ALIEN REGISTRATION NO: A 49% 261

ALL OTHER NAMES USED: JOON
CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH: HAVANA, CUBA
SOCIAL SECURITY N: 433-66-6015
FATHER: FAMILY NAME - GUITART
FIRST NAME - AGUSTIN
DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH(IF KNOWN) - APRIL 25, 1910 CARDENAS, CUBA
CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE NOJLA
MOTHER (MAIDEN NAME): FAMILY NAME - TORO
FIRST NAME - HELENA
DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH(IF KNOWN) - DEC 27, 1912 STCO OE DEWA, CUBA

CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE
SPOUSE (IF SO STATE): FAMILY NAME - MARTINEZ
FIRST NAME - GISELS
1-6-46, HAVANA 8-14-658
FORMER SPOUSES IF NOНЕ, ТО ΣΤΑΤΕ
FAMILY NAME (FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE
DATE & PLACE OF MARR
LA

BIRTHDATE
CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE: NDA!!!!
MP!! 17 Jul 88
CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH: CUDA
DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE
APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST..
STREET AND NUMBER: 2037 FEAN ST
5527 MCKENNAST
GEN. PEQSUING
4009 ELBA ST
PROVINCE OR STATE: NEW ORLEATHS
COT: LOUISIANA
USA

FROM: 
MONTH - AUC
YEAR - 65
TO
MONTH - NOV
YEAR - 64

PRESENT PINE
FROM
TO
MONTH YEAR
11
MONTH - JULY
YEAR - 64
NOV 64 A0065
FROM
TO
MONTH YEAR
0065
USA

MONTH - AUG
YEAR - 62

YEAR - JULY 64
File In: 201-727418(16th)
LAST FOREIGN RESIDENCE OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE. (INCLUDE ALL INFORMATION REQUESTED АΘΟΥΕ.)
CALLS 64 NO 1502 |Maajanab Havana |CUBA JULY|4506
APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS. 11F NONE, DO STATE) LIST PRESENT EMPLOYMENT FIRST..

FULL NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER: WALK, HAYOEL & ASSOCIATES 
762 BABONNE ST. NEW ORGANILA
CARY B.GAMBLE & ASSOCIATOS
635 COMMERCIAL PL, NO LA

OCCUPATION ORAFTSMAN T
MONTH - 1
FROM - 165
TO - PRESENT TIME
YEAR 165

MONTH - 3
YEAR - 66
65

LAST OCCUPATION ABROAD IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE. (INCLUDE ALL INFORMATION REQUESTED ABOVE.) STUDENT

THIS FORM IS SUBMITTED IN CONNECTION WITH APPLICATION TOВ:
NATURALIZATION ADJ HEMENT OF STATUS
OTHER (SPECIFY): RESIOONCY

PENALTIESI DEVERE PENALTIES ARE PROVIDED BY LAW
FOR SNOWINGLY AND WILLFULLY FALSIFTING
OR CONCEALING & MATERIAL FACT.

IF YOUR NATIVE ALPHABET IS IN OTHER THAN ROMAN LEVERAS, WRITE YOUR NAME IN YOUR NATIVE ALPHADET IN THIS SPACE:

6-10-68
DATE
SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT PETITIONER

---

727418
FORM 0-329 A REV. 4-1-67
JUL 3
NOL
SEC. 1. PL 89-732

BIOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service
ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.
436-324227
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

1040-1737
7200-32422
(FIST NAME) AGUSTIN (AMIDDLE NAME)
RAMOND
MALE BIRTHDATE (MO-DAY-YR. RATIONALLEY AUG-14.35 GUDAN

ALL STORY RAMES USED: NONE
CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH: HAVANA. CUBA
DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF DIRTH LIF RNOWN)
April 25, 1910-CU-DIVAS CULBN-
CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCS SP NEORE 13
43.USA

April 25, 1910-CU-DIVAS
FAMILY SAME FIRST NAME
MOTHER MAIDEN NAME) TORO HELENN GUITJAT AGUSTIN 436-324227436-32422

USA
APRIL 25. 1910
DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF DIRTH LIF
FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE
DAISY 2-7-36, Santingudoan, DEC. 23.60

FORMER SPOUSES (IF MONE, SO STATE): (FOR WIFE, SIVE MAIDEN NAME):
FORMER SPOUSES (IF MONE, SO STATE):
FAMILY NAME FIRST NAME
GUITJAT AGUSTIN
DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE CULBN-

USA

APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST..
STREET AND NUMBER: alides LOVISIONG
CITY: New Orleans
PROVINCE OR STATE: LOUISIANA
COUNTRY USA
FROM: MONTH 12
YEAR 67
TU: MONTH PRESENT TIME
YEAR
766

aysis 65th
1512-661361240.065667223 2713126675777794062736912
718(16th)

FIT IN: 201-9274/18

LAST FOREIGN RESIDENCE OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE LINGLUDE UDFORMATION
APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS. (IF MONE, 50 STATE) LIST PRESENT EMPLOWENT FIRST..

OCCUPATION: MONTH 
FROM: 
Tu
THE148.237.7.1.14 65610.117.3245
FULL SAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYEN: Linemon Diste 2400 Sauel-NewBleus667713.7783 66
DATE(SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT OR PETITIONER)

MONTH 
1
YEAR
46
66
TO New Lousurl86712 18-5-200

APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS. (IF MONE, 50 STATE) LIST PRESENT EMPLOWENT
FORM NO
1 FEB 53

PER-IAMENT PES.duce
PECIAL B

SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT OR PETITIONERJacint 25.788 Aspraten & intact

---

5(REV.-1-48)1-48)
148810-29
FORM N-325
Budget Bureau No. 43.348

BIOGRAPHIC N
ORMATION
FIRST NAME DATE CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH (If kno
LOUSTANA)A(
4339729
(3149
(Tamly name): Guitars (wat neerbe
Austin (iddle nere
18/
1. . (305603)New Orleans"302,7
ALL OTHER WARES USED: :0
3720187903
Family: Campuzano Kloisa1888 Mexico City
15231873) 7191229 12-22-91272845684)
Spouse 1st 0) HELEND 249)
FOBEER SPOUSES 86):
(For #fe, give maibon name): 93747)6
APPLICANT S RESIBENOS LABT 5 YEA LIST PREDENT ADOREBS FIRST
3605 18382793328723
2694 Lc Ave Pky
1363720) 7583,838777,
71103000928 7831186384232312972012860203718700740821867037102168062170
289111285
14931
889739932602424
LANT FOREIGN REBITENGOR OF 22380 1269(234233930)
11900091999437 12980 18778,383469802,71034040730030512
18
(138684) 0668311
587520)271
2308012831232173
MIM
309312)285
Xavier Universit
13,1940

A3
77740128 234
167752247233203
711174
414)
6-18-1968

RE
AND SORELY ALSIPY THE PALEIPTIM 7112473 3345120
THEME
26672
39312 3302690701
---

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION
13 Jan 1964 js.

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, SAS/OS
ATTENTION: Carl Trettin
201-727418
chile
The file cr GUITART Campuzano, Agustin, Dr.
and closed in CHOA for the following reason:

is cancelled
Failure to submit PRO-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to
indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational
use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish
a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.
/s