104-10192-10284
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

536
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE
24 ОСТ 61
SECRET

TO • DIRECTOR
1

FROM • LONDON
2
ACTION: W 2
3
ОСТ 24 21312 61

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, COP, ADDP/A/PRO CA/PRC,
CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/ NT 6, FI/D, BELL 5,
VR 16, VR /(A), DD/1(L), AD/CI, OS, S/C 2.
ROUTINE
IN 11257
TDCS-3/490,978

DIR INFO CARA CITE LOND 8769
ANDRE ACTING

INTEL DYVOUR.
SUPDATA SOURCE (SMOTH)

TIME FILED 13102
NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL OEL-30,995 CUBA

SUBJ: STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY

DOI OCTOBER 1961

PADA ENGLAND LONDON 24 OCTOBER 1961

SOURCE: (OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE) FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES IN CARACAS".

IW COMMENT:

NO SEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE OF THIS TDCS.

WH/RCO 5 VN/4/PN 2 WE/R 1
WH/RE 1 WM/PACY 2 VE/R 2
WH/FI 2 WH/NV 1
TDCS
PRECEDENCE

VPM 1 OS/SSO 1 ROUTINE
PRIORITY
WH/4 2 VE/FI 1

RELEASING INFO : PAIPROP DATE DISTRIBUTED BASED ON: OEL-30,995
(HP/SMOTH 01)
R.J.M.DELANEY 24 OCTOBER 2244 Z 61 LIAISON. C

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

TELEGRAMINFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SECRET

COUNTRY CUBA
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/490,978
SUBJECT STATEMENTS OF MANOLA RAY, EXILE LEADER DATE DISTR. 24 OCTOBER 1961
OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF OCTOBER 1961 REFERENCES: 11257
INFO
PLACE & ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)
DATE ACQL.
APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO. OEL-30,995

UN EVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTA TIV
SOURCE COFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE) FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES
IN CARACAS". 24

1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO
DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN .....
EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA,
INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO DE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL
RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED
BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33
TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.
RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE OFPOSED TO CASTRO,
THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT
PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATS ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA ONE NIC I USIA OCI
TREASURY REPCINCLANS OCR CAR OG EXO FSI

TELEGRAMINFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
HAD AGAINST BATISTA.

TDCS-3/490,978 11257.
PADS 2

3. THE MRP WAS PRESENTLY SHORT OF ARMS, AND EXPLOSIVES BUT THE
POSITION WAS IMPROVING. (A MILITIA CAPTAIN WAS RECENTLY
SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS IN PRISON FOR PASSING ARMS TO THE MRP).
NO HELP WHATSOEVER HAD BEEN RECEIVED BY THE INTERNAL RESISTANCE
FROM THE "SOURCES IN THE UNITED STATES, WHO PROVIDED SUPPORT..
FOR THE INVASION". THESE SOURCES WERE STILL THINKING
INEFFECTUALLY IN TERMS OF A FURTHER INVASION.

4. THE GENERAL ATTITUDE OF THE RESISTANCE IN CUBA TOWARDS
THE EXILES WAS ONE OF INDIFFERENCE MOUNTING TO CONTEMPT FOR
SPECIFIC MOVES SUCH AS THE PROPOSED PROMOTION OF A CUBAN GOVT
IN EXILE. WHAT THE RESISTANCE WANTED WAS FUNDS AND THE RETURN,
BY INFILTRATION, OF TRAINED EXILES, PARTICULARLY COMMUNICATION
EXPERTS.

5. ON THE TIMING OF CASTRO'S OVERTHROW, RAY SAID CASTRO WOULD
NOT LAST ANOTHER YEAR. HE ADDED THAT THE SITUATION IN CUBA
IMMEDIATELY AFTER CASTRO'S DOWNFALL WOULD DE DANGEROUS AND COULD
DEVELOP INTO A. CIVIL WAR.

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE. CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
MOFORM CONTINUED CONTROL
