104-10100-10223
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIG: FRANK/MICKUM: b31
UNIT: INDEX
EXT: 5661
DATE: 16 OCTOBER 1963
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
FILE NO 10-120-11

ROUTING
14
2
3
FM: RIO DE JANEIRO, MEXICO CITY
FM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:  100, C/CI, C/12, C/I/4, CCC, C/WH3, RF, VR

16 Ост 63 22 2
SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO: PRIORITY RIOD INFO:  PRIORITY MEXI
CITE DIR 6166
REF: MEXI 6550 (IN 40823) - (NOT SENT RIO)
LCHARVEST KAPOK

1. FOR RIO: SOME MEMBERS OF CHICOM DELEGATION TO THE SEVENTH CONGRESS
OF INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ARCHITECTS (UIA) HELD HAVANA 29 SEPT - 3 OCT AFTERWARDS
WENT MEXI TO ATTEND UIA GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON
ARCHITECTURE. MEXI GROUP NOW SCHEDULED LEAVE MEXI 0100 HOURS 19 OCT FOR RIO.
FOLLOWING BIO DATA ON THREE MEMBERS OF GROUP KNOWN TO BE MEXI:
A. YANG TING-PAO 2799 1694 1405, 201-735346; B. 20 AUG 1901, HONAN;
U.S. EDUCATED; MBR NPC; MBR ACADEMIA SINICA; VP, UIA.

B. LIANG SZU-CHENG 2733 1835 2052, 201-736781; B. 1901, TOKYO; U.S.
EDUCATED; MBR CCP; DEPUTY NPC AND CPPCC; VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY.

C. WU CHING-HSIANG 0702 2529 4382, 201-736317; B. CIRCA 1919, MANCHURIA;
FRENCH EDUCATED; CHAIRMAN ARCHITECTURE DEPT TUNG CHI UNIV, SHANGHAI.

2. DURING STAY GROUP MEXI UNILATERAL APPROACHES MADE TO YANG TING-PAO
AND LIANG SZU-CHENG FOR PURPOSES OF ASSESSMENT AND POSSIBLE DEBRIEFING,
DEFECTION OR RECHUITMENT IN PLACE. FOLLOWING CONTACTS WITH YANG BY FORMER
PARTNER IN ARCHITECTURAL FIRM CHINA AND BY MBR U.S. FIRM YANG PREVIOUSLY
ASSOCIATED WITH, YANG ACCEPTED INTERVIEW WITH KUBARK STAFFER WHO USED COVER

CONTINUED
COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

16074

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT :
DATE:
TO :
FRANK/MICKUM:b31
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:
PAGE TWO

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
TO
INFO
CITE DIR 76166

RESEARCH SCHOLAR CHINA. CONVERSATION FRIENDLY AND INCLUDED DISCUSSION MAINLAND
SITUATION. LIANG APPROACHED BY KUBARK CONTROLLED U.S. VIROLOGIST WHO WAS STUDENT
LIANG AT YALE 1947. CONTACT WITH LIANG KNOWN TO OTHER CHICOMS IN DELEGATION,
ALTHO LIANG LEFT ALONE WITH OUR MAN FOR HALF HOUR. LIANG ATTITUDE FRIENDLY BUT
SEEMED TO FOLLOW PREARRANGED LINE AND LIANG PROFESSED COMPLETE BELIEF CHINESE
COMMUNISM. LIANG CLAIMED CONTACT BETWEEN CHINESE AND AMERICAN "FRIENDS" CONSIDERED
HIGHLY DESIRABLE BY CHINESE. CONTACTS WITH BOTH LIANG AND YANG LIMITED TO
FRIENDLY DISCUSSIONS SINCE OPERATIONAL DISCUSSION DID NOT SEEM APPROPRIATE IN
EITHER CASE.

3. WU'S BROTHER, U.S. CITIZEN, ARRIVING MEXICO 16 OCTOBER TO TALK WITH
WU AND ASK HIM IF WISHES REMAIN IN FREE WORLD.

4. REQUEST RIOD MOLITOR ACTIVITIES GROUP BRAZIL AS FEASIBLE AND ATTEMPT
DEVELOP FURTHER BIO AND ASSESSMENT DATA IF NATURAL ACCESS TO GROUP CAN BE FOUND.
DO NOT RECOMMEND FORCED APPROACH TO ANY OF GROUP, SINCE OUR COVER FOR THIS
ACTIVITY WEARING THIN AND THERE IS LONG RANGE COAL OF FUTURE FOLLOW UP THESE
CONTACTS WHEN APPROPRIATE ACCESS CAN BE ARRANGED.

CONTINUED

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

ORIG: FRANK/MICKUM:b31
UNIT: INDEX
EXT : NO INDEX
DATE: FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
14
25
36
TO :
FM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PAGE THREE
TO
INFO
CITE DIR 76166

5. FOR MEXI: PLS IDENTIFY OTHER MEMBERS OF MEXI GROUP ENROUTE RIOD AND
FORWARD TO RIOD ANY ADDITIONAL INFO ON PURPOSE TRIP TO RIOD. ALSO INFORM RIOD
OF RESULTS WU MEETING WITH BROTHER.

END OF MESSAGE

A/DCFE(C)
WH/3
WH/5
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
WILLIAM E. COLET
/FE
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
Copy No.
