104-10180-10215	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO:
Chief, Special Affairs Staff
PROCESSING
INFO:

ACTION:
FROM:	Chief of Station, JMWAVE/ COPY

SUBJECT:
Operational/CYPOCE/AIREALEN/FOX
WT Operator Candidate Inside Target Area.

ACTION REQUIRED
REFERENCES:
Action Required:	Request for Headquarters Review of Files - Para 5.

1. In the fall of 1960 ANTRE 1 (Peter J. DI CERVENO)
recruited an operator candidate, whose name he
cannot recall at this time. This candidate was spotted and
first contacted by AMPANIC-1, who passed the lead over to
AMIPE 1. AMPANIC-1 first contacted the candidate on the porch
of the old Mercedes Benz Agency at Palecon and Principe Streets,
and ANTRE 1 then contacted subject in the latter's apartment in
the fourth floor of a building located in the middle of the 8
block on the East Side of Penocal Avenue (Infanta) Between (Valle
and San Jose Streets. This building had a store in the first
floor, was painted a pinkish beige, and the apartments were
very small (one bedroom and bath, living-dining room combina-
tion and a small kitchen). Subject was at the time working in
a hardware store and living with his wife and a small child.
Subject was about 33 years old, tall (20), lbs., wore thick
glasses, light complexion, light hair, protruding facial features)

2. Subject had experience as a professional WT operator
and worked a clandestine WT set for the Organizacion Autentica
(OA) against the Batista regime. AMPANIC-1 was a member of the
(OA) and spotted subject through a leader of the (OA) for whom
Subject worked in the underground.

3. Subject was trained for a week or so by AMELEN-1 in a
safehouse located at 39 San Rafael Street) which had been obtained
for that purpose by APTOX-1. APTOX-1 attended the training
sessions as a lock-out, but neither APTOX-1 nor AMCLEN-1 knew
the identity and address of the trainee. Training included the
clandestine operation of a RS-1, the use of signal plans, the use
of pads in coding and decoding, and personal security. Training
was conducted in the fall of 1969 after recruitment of Subject
and with the approval of CO George D. SCOPCORY, who was AMIRD-1's
CO at the time and to whom full reports were turned in on the

Distribution: (Continued)
3- Headquarters
DATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED
600 1 25 Jan. 63

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFCA-7439

CLASSIFICATION	HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
SECRET	19-120-33-5413

CONTINUATION OF	UFCA-7439
DISPATCH	SECRET

training and the identity of the candidate. Subject was never
activated and was kept on stand-by for possible use at a later
date. For that purpose bona fides were established by A-1
and reported to his CO. Subject was not supplied with a WT set
and no signal plans nor pads were issued to him.

4. Al recalls Subject was very secure in his clandestine
contacts and operations. Despite established bona fides, ANTRE 1
had considerable trouble in gaining Subject's confidence and ol
three preliminary contacts were necessary before getting down to
business. Subject was last contacted by AMIPE-1 at Subject's
apartment described above, in January or February 1961. At
this time Subject was still willing and ready to work.

5. It is assumed that Headquarters files on the activities of
AMIRD-1, AMCLEN-1 or AMFOX-1 will contain copies of the training
reports and information reported by AMTRE 1. We would appreciate
Headquarters assistance in ascertaining Subject's identity and
present whereabouts in order to determine if he could still be
used operationally inside target area. AMPANIC-1 has been
terminated by JMWAVE PA Branch because of weakness in his personal
security, and it is believed best not to contact him on this
matter if possible.

END OF DISPATCH

FOAM CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO
530 SECRET 2.
CONTINUED 4
