14-00000
104-10222-10041

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: Conein Lucien

INCLUSIVE DATES: 11 Nov 53-13 Jan 76
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OP

ROOM: 5E13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED
DATE RETURNED
REVIEWED BY 
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF 
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

14-00000
Date Control Service - Arthur R. Schwickrath (P)
Action Compensation Equivalent

Former Military Detailed to Argentina
Cited RebelOfficer
Continstein project
12 Nov 61 Hired as a Career Agent with Civil
Service Retirement, LPAs and PSIS 11,415 GS-13/4
14 Oct 62LPA  12,245 GS: 13/4
28 Apr 63. Pay increase 13,270 GS-14/2
5 Jan 64 LPA 14,065 GS-14/2
26 Apr 64 PSL 14,515 GS-14/3
5 July 64 LPA 15,150 GS-14/3
25 Apr 64 PSL 15,640 GS-14/4
10 Oct 65. LPA 16,204. GS.14/4.
3 July 66 LPA 16,675 GS-14/4
8 Oct 67 LPA 17,425 GS-14/4
9-Jan 68 Control Terminated 17.42.5 GS-14/4

10 Jun 282 Contract Employee with goul Sexage
Returningl, CAS anld PSSS, a = 17,425 GS-14/4
14.5 7 65 LPA 18.641 GS-14/4
15 507 05 Control Terminated 18.641 GS-14/4

14-00000
CLUTILI
JAN 131978
SHINICKRATH, ARTHURR
Jobs 69 731 bo

CI 055-76

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT : Compromise of Cover

1. As a result of information obtained from reliable sources who served in Vietnam, we have established that the former Staff personnel listed on the attachment should be presumed to have been compromised as CIA employees to the North Vietnam Intelligence Service as of April 1975. We presume also that the identifications of these individuals as CIA employees were passed by the North Vietnamese to the Soviets.

2. Although the personnel listed in the attachment are no longer employed by CIA, nevertheless, I suggest that their official personnel records should be documented concerning the possible past compromise of their cover.

3. Please coordinate any action connected with this memorandum with Chief, CCS; Chief, CMGB and Chief, CI Staff.
Attachment: a/s

George T. Kalaris
Chief
Counterintelligence Staff

SECRET

CL

14-00000
25 January 1974

Drug Enforcement Agency
Office of Personnel
Technical Support Section
1405 I Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20537

Attention: Ms. Mary Elliott

Dear Ms. Elliott:

In response to the request from your office of 16 January, the following is a transcript of the employment of LUCIEN E. CONEIN:

Date Action Salary
12 Nov 61 Contract Employee with Civil Service
Retirement, Legislative Pay Adjustments $11, 415 (GS-13/4 oq.)
and Periodic Step Increases
14 Oct 62 Legislative Pay Adjustment $12,245 (GS-13/409.)
28 Apr 63 Pay Increase $13,270 (GS-14/2 eq.).
5 Jan 64 Legislative Pay Adjustment $14,065 (GS-14/2 oq.)
26 Apr 64 Periodic Stop Increase $14,515 (GS-14/3 ng.)
5 July 64 Legislative Pay Adjustment $15,150 (GS-14/3 eq.)

25 Apr 64 Periodic Step Increase $15,640 (G6-14/4 )
19 Oct 65 Legislative Pay Adjust $16.204 (GS-14/4 50.)
3 July 66 Lagislativa Pay Adjustment $15,675 (GS-14/4 ec.)
8 Oct 67 Legislative Pay Adherent $17,425 (GS-14/4 eq.)
14 July 63 Legislative Pay Adjustroent $18,64] (8-14/4)
15 July 68 Contract Torminated $18,641 (GS-14/4 eq.)

Attached is Standard Forms 175 and 1150, There is no record of Standard Forms 2809 and 2810. Perhaps his military retirement obliviated the need for health insurance.

Sincerely,

Roser Fowler
Personnel Officer

Attachments

14-00000
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION
Washington, D.C. 20537

Jan. 16, 1974

Mr. John F. Blake
Director of Personnel
Central Intelligence guacy
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Lucien E. Conein, S: 513-05-0926
DOB: 11-29-19

Dear Mr. Blake:

An official transcript of service is requested for Mr. Conein, an employee with this buncy. Mr. Conein was employed with your agency from November Not to July 15, 1968. Request Standard Form 176, 1150, 2509 and 2810 de forwarded to Drug Enforcement Administration, Office es Personnel, Technical Support Section, Att: Mary Elliott, Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20537.

Enclosed ts a Standard Form 30 showing Mr. Conein's employment with this Agency.

Thank you for your coatien in this matter.

Sincerely yours,
Jam Ballard
Personnel Director
Enclosure
AS

14-00000
NOTIFICATION OF
PERSONNEL ACTION

NAME IS APS LAST CONEIN LLUCIEN MILE
VETERAN PREFFOFTER

2. S3.14

O TENURE C SERVICE COMP DAT

14-00000
1110
NOTIFICATION OF
PERSONNEL ACTION

NAME IS APS LAST CONEIN LLUCIEN MILE
VETERAN PREFFOFTER
1 NG
4 10 P! (
FEGLI REG DAY AHID
12 NATURE OF ACTION
O TENURE C
SERVICE COMP DAT
FEGLI REG DAY AHID
12 NATURE OF ACTION CILA
SERVICE COMP DAT
8 HANDICAP COOL
2. S3.14

3 10 PI DISABILITY 310 PT OTHER
APIG&OP 10 RETIREMENT

OTHER
14 CIVIL SERVICE OF OTHERIEGAL AUTHORIN
13 EFFECTIVE DATE

B POSITIUNORCOPED

OCCUPATION CODE
3 FS
2 FICA
I-CS
6 10 PI DISABILITY 310 PT OTHER
APIG&OP 10 RETIREMENT
1-CS

2 FICA
111556 use!
3 FS

NO

OTHER

14 CIVIL SERVICE OF OTHERIEGAL AUTHORIN
13 EFFECTIVE DATE

B POSITIUNORCOPED

OCCUPATION CODE
3 FS
2 FICA
111556 use!
GRADE
OPLEVEL
AND RATE
18 SALARY

POSITION TITLE
AND NUMBER

19 NAME AND
LOCATION OF
EMPLOYING
OFFICE
DATE
RECEIVED
POSITION TITLE
AND NUMBER
74 NAME AND
LOCARONOF
CAPLOVING
OFFICE

25 CARY SHAR

21 PARPLANA
OCCUPATION CODE
GRADE
OPLEVEL
AND RATE
18 SALARY
23 SALARY
ON LEVEL
AND PAIF

TRANSCRIPT

Please Forward Official Personne

Frend S.F. 1150 10:
Arthur R.
Administration
Ferocinci Manet Division
1505: Street, B..
Acchatten, 2.0. 2013
ATI MARY ELLIOTT 20017801

APROPIO is
PHLIVE
WALL
OCA
Sta't

14-00000
9 OCT 1973
Mr. James Ballard
Acting Director of Personnel
Drug Enforcement Agency
1405 1 Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20537

Dear Mr. Ballard:

This is to certify that Mr. Lucion E. Conoin was employed by this Agency in a civilian capacity from 12 November 1961 to 15 July 1968, at which time ho retired on disability under the Civil Service Retirement Act. He left under honorable circumstances.

Sincerely,

Joka F. Blake
Director of Porsonnel

Distribution:
01
1 - D/Pers
Addressso
1 EFAB Subject Filo
1 EEAD Chrono

OP/RAD/EEAB/FGJarema:kr (4 October 1973)
!

14-00000

SENDER WILL C...CA SENDER WILL CHぞん。 CFAGIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFHD UNCLASSIF CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
TO

CIRAS

2
3

5

6
ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE
Remu hers and like you to
Quan senica. Har man obriously
har mire teme than michiicated!
wily avait une certifying the de
of it. Ars ime avans of what
be har too DEA?
FORM NG FOLD HEAR TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM MANG POLE DATE
237 war-38 282nd mi 02 OCT 1973
STERET (40)

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
193IFICATION TOP AND DOTTOM
CONFIDENTIAL. STORET

NAME AND ADDRES9 DATE INITIALS
TO

C/RAD
1
DD/Pers/SP 05 OCT 1973
• Dipers-

See Daze's notte ad attacke
ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE
Remarks:

Ben- Attached is on rewrite f
the Concin menar. Also
explanatury note na hus prive
duy Qinvece

FORM NG
1.57
FOLD HERE 10 LITO SENDER

POMALE ALS AND PHONE
C/EEAB 204 Magazine 3295
237 Use :07:20s ad
CONFIDENILAL SEGNAT (40)

14-00000

4 October 1973

Ron -

Conein was in U.S. military from September 1941 through September 1961, and on detail to OSS, SSU, CIG, and CIA to time of military retirement.

He was picked up as a civilian and as a career agent on 12 November 1961 and retired on dizability on 15 July 1968.

Archenhold advised that subject claims military service as indicated above and that the only period to be certified is the period as a civilian, November '61 to July ¿z. This all we know about what Concin told DEA.

Frank C. Jarema

Distribution:
0. C/RAD
1- FEAR Memos file
1 EEAB Chrono

OP/RAD/EEAB/Fotarema:pig (4 October 1973)

14-00000
:
:
Mr Janney
Mr Blake
1 OCT 1973 OCT 1273
Because of the publicity this man has recieved I suggest you touch base on the phone with Howard Osborn. RDK

Veinfy service +
inter te hos Torl.
DEA

VIP.

SENDER WILL CHE CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED T SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

To NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 DD/Pers/SP
2 D/Pers 01 OCT 19:3

3

6

ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE
Remarkss

Luke Conein has applied for employment with the Drug Enforcement Agency. The Acting D/Pers asked for the attached info from CIA.

Sent to D/Pers for signature. Conein was very controversial, much in the news about the overthrow of Ngo Dinh Diem and has been mentioned by Howard Hunt in Hunt's recent hearing before "Watergate" committee. Dick Biladeau, Central Cover, affirms that Conein is "opened up". RG

FOLD HEHE TO RETURN TO SENDER
PHAM ACC ۳۱۰VE NO DATE

C/RAD, 212 Magazine Bldg. x3328 9/23/73

UNCLAS D CONFIDENTIAL SSORAT
F237 Use previous editions (40)

14-00000
:

28 September 1973

Ben -

Stan Archenhold, x 7264, one of the Agency's drug coordinators with DEA, called me yesterday afternoon. DEA had requested a memo verifying employment of Mr. Lucien E. Conein, whose name has appeared frequently during the Watergate hearings. The attached memorandum is what Archenhold wants.

Conein's service was verified with ROB; his 'honorable service" was cleared with SAS. Since he was under cover as contract, I discussed the case with Dick Biladeau of Central Cover. CCS had opened up Conein last year and Biladean approved release of the information to DEA. We had verified this service to a Justice Department investigator approximately one year ago when Conein was being considered as a consultant for BNDD.

Archenhold offered to carry the memorandum to DEA.

Frank G. Jarema

14-00000

(HOURS)

FIRST NAME
Lucien
E. (MIMI)
3. OATE AND NATURE CH SEPARATION
- DARENT TILE
US CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Sury to Secan 20 (6)
TOTA ANNUAL LEAVE

1. Date at time of

1. Current leeve year secmal through 7/13
Fears
0
LINITIA
741217 1500 7/15/08

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE
SICK LEAVE
(HOURS)
116
462
Manths
SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE
(DAYS)
Fears then 15 years
REMARKS
Date 4/29/65 SCD 11/7/41
404
251
15 da
1.5
17. Dates leave used, prior 24 months.
(1002)
TO
404
501
81-100
4. Tola
8 Reduction in credits, if any (current year)
I total leave taken 104 262
10 Balance 360 0
360 br plus 1 holiday
10,641
"14"
4002
18 Monthly accrual date
19 Calendar days credit for next accrual date

1. Date bose service period completed
MILITARY LEAVE
"Dates during current calendar ye

22 Datos during preceding calendar ye
ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
hours
3254/08 9/17/68 1500
"During leave year in which separated
"During step increase wording
(Signature)

1. US CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
November 1903

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED

14-00000

ELECTION, DECLARATION, OR WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GILOUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM

TO COMPLETE THIS FORM-

• FOLLOW THESE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:
• Read the back of the "Duplicate" carefully before you fill in the form.
• Fill in BOTH COPIES of the form. Type or use ink.
• Do not detach any part.

FILL IN THE IDENTIFYING INFORMATION BELOW (please print or type):

NAME (last) (first) (middle)
DATE OF BIRTH (month, day, year) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
35
EMPLOYING DEPARTMENT OR AGENCY LOCATION (City, Slate, ZIP Code)

MARK AN "X" IN ONE OF THE BOXES BELOW (do NOT mark more than one):
Mark here
if you
WANT BOTH
eptional and
regular
insurance
Muk hom
Η γει
BONOT WANI
CITIONAL but
do vent
"gular
surance
Mark here
if you
WANT NEITHER
regular nor
optional
mance
(A) ELECTION OF OPTIONAL (IN ADDITION TO REGULAR) INSURANCE
I elect the $10,000 additional optional insurance and authorize the required deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to pay the full cost of the optional insurance. This optional insurance is in addition to my regular insurance.

(B) DECLINATION OF OPTIONAL (BUE NOF REGULAR) INSURANCE
I deelse the 11tand that I connot clect op tominal in tutta wald feed 1 your after the effective date of thus declamation and unless at the time I apply for it I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability poderstand also that my regular insurance is not affected by this declina-tion of additional optional insurance

(C) WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE
1 desire not to be insured and I waive coverage under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. I understand that I canpol Cancel Uns waiver and obtain regular in- surance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this wawer and unless at the time I apply for insurance I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of in- surability: I understand also that I cannot now or later have the $10,000 additional optional insurance uniess I have the regular insurance.
SIGN AND DATE. IF YOU MARKED BOX "A" OR "C", COMPLETE THE "STATISTICAL STUB." THEN RETURN THE ENTIRE FORM TO YOUR EMPLOYING OFFICE.
SIGNATURE (Co act print)
FOR EMPLOYING OFFICE USE ONLY
and date
(official receiva stamp)

DATE
89.67

CRIGINAL COPY-Retain in Official Personnel Folder
See Table of Elective Detes en back of Onginal
- 0176-1

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR FILE SECRET

25 January 1972

SUBJECT: Arthur R. SCHWICKRATH (P)

REFS: A. UWCT-701, 18 November 1971
B. UWCS-705, 29 November 1971

1. This memorandum will record a series of conversations with Chief of Base, Washington concerning the proposed use of Subject as a re-hired annüitant or alternatively the proposed use of. Subjoct's wife as a contract agent as a spotter and access agent for the Washing-ton Base,

2. Based on several conversations with representatives of the Office of Security and the Office of Medical Services we have been advised that a request for approval to employ Subject or his wife would not receive either OMS or Office of Security concurrence.

3. Based on the above, Chief of Base, Washington has agreed to withdraw his request in Reference A and this memorandum will serve in lieu of a dispatch reply.
Maurice A. Sovern
C/DOI/B-1
SECRET

14-00000
2.
3.
SECRET
NON-STAFF PERSONNEL DATA SHEET
SURETIT FOR:
A. CONTRACT EMPLOYEES (TICK A. DAND CARRER)

8. DATI 12/13/71
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS UNDER WHITTEN CONTRACT OR MOC (US CITIZENS O RESIDENT ALIENS ONLY)
THIS FORM IS NOT APPLICABLE FOR OPERATIONAL OR FIELD AGENTS
COPIES OF THE FORM WILL BE RETAINED BY THE ORIGINATING COMPONENT (NUMBER OF COPIES AT 173 DISCRETION) AND BY CSPS/AGENT BRANCH (1 corY ONLY)
INSTRUCTIONS. 1.
NAME (LAST.First.1000.F)
SCINICHIRATH, Arthur R. (P)

SER
Male
MARITAL STATUS
Married
NO. DEPENDENTS
4
YEARIS) OF GIRTH 1929, 1950, 1958, 1959
NATIONALITY
Nat. U. 3. Α.
DATE OF BIRTH 11/20/19
LAST MEDICAL EPAM
11/67
COMPONENT
DO
DATE OF LATEST BECURITY/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
CSA, 10/10/01

CONTRACT CATEGORY EFFECTIVE DATE
MOC
JOB TITLE Agent
EXPIRATION DATE SALARY
$50.00 per
took

GRADE EQUIVALENT PROJECT OR FAN .
N/A

YES
SOCIAL SECURITY

FECA DEATH AND DISABILITY

ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE

CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT

CIA RETIREMENT OR COMMERCIAL CIA ANNUITY

FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE

CONTRACT LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE

MISSING PERSONS BENEFITS OTHER (EXPLAIN)
NON-CIA EDUCATION

University of Maryland, 77: credit hours on Bachelor of Military Science Degree

U. S. Army Infantry School, Ft. Benning, Georgia, 1943

British Special Intelliger.cë School, 1943-1944

U. S. Psychological Warfare Training, 1959

Fluent in French

DATES NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT
FROM TO EMPLOYER LOCATION
FUNCTION SALARY
9/41-9/61 U. S. Army France
Germany
Indochina
CIA TRAINING
Paramilitary Training - 1951

DATES CONTH. SALARY GRADE
FROM ۲۵ FUNCTION CAT. LOCATION PROJECT
11/12/61
01//62 Ops Officer (24) CA Hq3 GS-13
04/20/63
" " Saigon SOD GS-13
07/15/60 "
" FE GS-14/2
Disability Retirement 13
200 3195

14-00000
2-70
CIA EMPLOYMENT HISTORY (HEGINNING THEOD)
*H3
*3
SECRET

SECURITY
Factors ar spring suOJECT ( 58-55. RADIO, TV), AMORN DO BUSPECTED IDENTIFICATION TO OTHER THAN
Cia stare PassOAMIL, INTELLIGENCE OF BLcuits stovices.
When Subject retired he was told to indicate CIA as his place of employment for the entire period - November 1961 through July 1968.

COVER

A. PREBEAT COVLA ISI OFFICIAL NON-OFFICIAL
DIVISIÓN EVALUATION OF COVER SECURITY,

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE

ADAPTABILITY (SUBJECT AND FAMILY) TOWARDS DUAL LIFE

B. PREVIOUS COVER WAS OFFICIAL NON-OFFICIAL (GIVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION IF NOC)

MODILITY
INDICATE LIMITING FACTORS DOTH PERSONAL AND OPERATIONAL

FUTURE UTILIZATION
INDICATE PLANS OR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR USE AFTER CURRENT ASSIGNMENT
SECRET

14-00000
E2CRET

PROCESSING ACTION

X MARKED FOR INDLAING
CHAY QUALIFIED DISE
i CAN FUDGE INDLAING
MICROFILIA
C, DC Division

Chief of Baso, Washington,
ISOLOG/Administrativo DO Base/Washington's Proposed Use of Rotired Annuitant - Arthur B.
SCIWICKRATH (P)
ACTION REQUIRED: Seo paragraph 1.
REFERENCE : None

1. Headquarters approval is requestoć for DO Base/ Washington's oporational use of retired annuitant, Arthur 2. SOMMICKRATH, a Tormer Caroor Agent contract employee who was retired on a medical disability 15 July 1968.

2. The Base would like to employ SOMMICKRATH for use - Vietnamese, French and other target individuals in this area. SCMICKATE is already acquainted with Those people and both ne and his wife Xuvo access to other tatarger indiviccais in the foreign diplomatic com-ity here.

3. We propose to reimburse SCHWICKRATH for expenses curred in our behalf and to compensate him for specific sporacional offorts undertaken and production rendered. We Co mot 22opose that he be placed on any continuing monthly cr anacil salary basis.

tion: - C/DO
JEROME J. LANKS

COPATCH S :DATE
C-70I NOV 1272
17 November 1971

14-00000
SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP MO - UWCS-705

FILE NO - NONE

DATE - 29 NOVEMBER 1971

INDEX - NONE

FILM - NONE

- CHIEF OF BASE, WASHINGTON

FO - CONE

FROM - CHIEF, DO DIVISION

EFS ARTHUR R. SCHWICKRATH
UVCT-701, 16-NOV 71

1. 1. PLEASE CONFIRM THAT BASE PLANS TO USE SULJECT REF AS 4-MONTARCT AGENT ON A MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT. IF SO ADVISE METHOD OF PAYMENT /2.0. $50.00 PER ASSESSMENT ETC./ ET-NATE OF MAXIMUM ANNUAL COMPENSATION. SINCE SUCCESS IS A RETIRED AS THE APPROVAL OF THE PERSONEL OR HIGHER WILL BE REQUIRED PRICE EMPLOYMENT.
BLENA F. SHAMPINE
ISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCA
-2-003, VASHINGTON

SECRET TELEPOUCK UWCS-705 END OF MESSACE
DC 20/ER
COMO 30/1/31
00/00/01

14-00000
SECRET

DO 71 353

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel
VIA : Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT : Lt. Col. Lucien E. Conein

1. A recommendation for the approval of the Director of Personnel is contained in paragraph three (3).

2. Lt. Col. Lucien Conein served as a military detailee to the Agency and predecessor organizations until his retirement from the U. S. Army Reserves on 30 September 1961. He became a Career Agent in November 1961 and served primarily in Saigon as the senior advisor to the Chief of Station on major counter insurgency programs until his retirement for disability in July 1968. He is an expert on Vietnamese affairs and was awarded the Intelligence Star for his performance during the November 1963 coup in Saigon. Because of his extensive overseas experience with the Military and the Agency, especially in Viet- nam, he has access to many Vietnamese, French and other target individuals in the Washington area. He is already acquainted with many of these people and both he and his wife have access to other potential target individuals in the foreign diplomatic community.

3. Approval is requested to employ Lt. Col. Conein for use against the Vietnamese, French and other targets as a re- employed annuitant under a Memorandum of Oral Committment. He will be paid $50.00 for each specific task assigned to him, such as developing contacts or assessing individuals of operational interest to the Base, as stipulated by the Base in advance. His total compensation will not exceed $2,400.00 per annuin. This annual payment, coupled with his annuity of approximately $4, 700 per annum will not exceed ninety per cent of his salary as a GS-14/4 at the time of his retirement. A Non-Staff Person- nel Data Sheet is attached for your information.

SEYMOUR RUSSELL
Chief, DO Division

SECRET GROUP!
Lachaded frem stomaths
dow-yading and
dectacle thon

14-00000

CONCURRENCE SHEET

CONCUR:
SECRET

Deputy Director for Plans Date..

APPROVAL:

Director of Personnel Date
SECRET

GROUPI
Badded less adestac
لمعد ولى

14-00000
WASH POST
r
22 DEC 31
NBC Claims
Diem Death
Inside Story

Seventeen enerals and colonels of the South Vietnamese army voted unent mousts to kil President 'Ngo Dịnh Diem in 1963, and were not particularly discouraged by hig ranking US CIA Official in NBC report scheduled to be telecast to night discloses

The report is Part 2 of An NBC News White Paper: Vietnam Hindsight and deals with the origins of America's Involvement in that Southeast Asis country.

The report presents the first supposed inside: account of Diem's assassination, disguised as a political coup, and in- cludes statements by Alvin Davis, associate producer of the program, and Lt. Col. Lu- cien Chein, the kry CIA man, in South Vietnam during the time of the coup.

It is "quite imeonceivable" to Concin that Gen. Maxwell Jay Taylor and others were not aware of the timing of the coup, Conein says on the pro- gram, which depicts Diem's death as a Diem maneuver that, backfired.

The decision to kill Diem is reported to have developed over a series of eight meet- ings and arguments, and, fi- naby, a vote. Three who would hase voted La-cove-Diom were алнальnated before the sele was taken. Four others in- chiting the preacai Pume Minister, Khirin, were deber ately caluded from the aume Mann among the 17 hou ver, wartell him silled rom the start and the on, over Feard phrase תו התנאי French father than in Vietna by Mich, might have been special conventor in the (1011, election. tari, Thant de le

After that the twent like this: Big Mind: kill, Gen Don: kill: Gen Xuan, Col. Nghĩa, kill. At the end there was total unanimity, and a vow of silence was taken. The st lence is to be broken tonight, Davis says.

Diem had asked for full honors, and a "craceful" exit from Vienam to exile in an- other country, but refused to Big Minhtho un cursig was furious at the slight.

Between 6 and 9 pm. Nov. 2 the day of Diem's death, he refused again to speak to Minh, then finally spoke to him on the telephone, but Minh, outraged, hung up On the third try. Diem cave in. asking only for safe conduct.

At this point Col Cancin said he was told by Ambas sador Henry Cabot Lodge not ta instigate, encourage or dis-courage a coup, which was in! the planning stages throush- eut October, 1963. Bat Drem, Conein said, had his own pians, for a phony coup, after which he and his family would he brought in honors, by popular, acclaim, back to Saigon from their place of exile, Pleiku

What happened, apparently, is that both the phony coup and the real one came oit at the same time, fooling Diem and his brother, Ngo Dinh Như

Conein, In an attempt to get Diem out of the country says he asked his embassy icra plane, but was told that de, would have to wast 24 hours for it

"I spoke for the US gov. ernment and I was authorized, and I informed the junta (Diem's organizations that had an alrcraft, but it would take me 24 hours to have that aircraft on the ground.

"Instead" Davis asked "Instead, he was shot by a major in the Vietnamese army," Conein says on the Telecast

14-00000

TO:
(Chock
SECRET
NOTIFICATION OF ESTA, SHMENT OR CANCELLATICH
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

COATMEAL ch
/CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION
CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT (For action)

ATTN:
Chief Support Steff

REF:

SUBJECT
Resignation-Debriefing
Cater
February 1968
FILE NUMBER 9321
EWLOYEE NUMBER
אאא 750559
ID CARD NUMBER 12
OFFICIAL COVER
BACKSTOP ESTABLISHED
DISCONTINUED

KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER BLOCK RECORDS
(орпемо 20-800-11)

A. TEMPORARILY FOR DAYS
EFFECTIVE DATE COB 12 Nov 61

B. CONTINUING AS OF COR
CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECORDS
(ngõemo 20-800-11)
DATE (0
