104-10226-10011 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

C/ Ops 61
THIS-
19-120-26
UR
6 April 1961
ATIN : Chief, Counter Division
Support
Chief, Miami Office

Memorandum of Visit to: Julio Pablo RODRIGUEZ NAYAS
3339 N.W. 22nd Avenue
Miami, Florida

1. Mr. Frank Watermann, representative of the US State Dept. in Miami,
advised this office that Subject arrived in the US on 21 Mar 61 as an exile
and that he might have information of interest to this office.

2. On 4 Apr 61, Luis M. Rodriguez interviewed Subject in Watermann's
office.  An examination of Subject's passport disclosed that he was born on
23 Jan 1943 in Havana, Cuba.

3. Subject stated that he is a member of a clandestine organization named
United Revolutionary Movement (URM), which is composed of 18 underground groups.  The
Coordinator for military operations of URM was Major Humberto 2001 Perin, who
was arrested recently.  Among the leaders of UR are Rogelio GONZALEZ better
known by his nom de guerre of "Trestleiro"; and Rafael DIAZ alias "Ralph".  All
these individuals were arrested recently and UR is completely disorganized as
a result.

4. Subject also stated that his mission with URM was to serve as courrier
between the organization and the Catholic Chaplain at the Cabana fortress.
The Liaison between the Chaplain and Subject was Pray Fabian, who is the sexton
at the Jesus de Miramar Church, in the suburb of Miramar, near Havana.

5. Subject also made a trip to Sancti Spiritus in the Province of Las
Villas bringing a radio transmitter to the anti-Castro guerrillas operating
in the Escambray.  Through the above mentioned priests, Subject obtained, some
information furnished by prisoners held in the Cabana fortress which is being .
transmitted to repart Bean.

6. Subject intends to remain in the US indefinitely and has been instructed
to contact a Cuban patriot named "Barosto", who presides at 
Miami.  Barosto is the URM representative in Miami.

7. No further contacts with Subject are anticipated.

/LRodriguez/cab
JUANITA F. CLEMMONS
faction chief in the
security unit
(re discijin)
by Amrunt
