14-00000
104-10163-10087 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

21 mar 60 pas SECRET

APPROVAL WORK RECORD
25 January 1932, Moron, Province of Camaguey, Cuba
CI/OA FILE NO. SECURITY OFFICE FILE NO. PROJECT
C-32064 201-267137 210838

TRUE NAME SUBJECT (FILL IN ONE ONLY)
CRYPTONYM PSEUDONYM
ARTIME Buesa, Manuel Francis
AMBIDDY/1
AKA - Manuel Francisco Perfecto Pernando ARTIME

NAME CHECK & INVESTIGATIVE RECORD

CHECK (VI INITIAL DATE ISSUED
CHECK (√) DATE TO
bi 20 Marc 24 mar60 WH/4/kul
reinst 28 Oct60 WH/4/Cut
PRO 1
P.O.A
wa 30 SEP 1963 rein 3ank3 SAS
PRO 11
0075 NPR Ely Nell 24 Mar 60 26 Mars 28 Oct 60 O.A. r 30 Sept 63 SAS
ada
GREEN
LIST

RI NDI
TRACES
NDI X C.S.A..
oa DIV P.C.S.A.
TRACES
FIELD
TRACES.
NI OF Juwor Jan'63 P.P.A.
ND
24 mar60
PROP: APP.
INDICES C.N.C.
INDICES COMMENTS
NOT 13 June 60
✓
REIN. June 60

CASE OFFICER DIVISION EXTENSION
Mouha WHA SAS 2971

1206 SECRET

14-00000
office of Security Investigatis
Reporta

14-00000
TO : WH/COG DATE
REPLY REQUESTED 4 Aug 72 pa
SPEED LETTER
X VES NO LETTER NO
C-82064 /201-267437.

FROM: CI/OA
ATTN: Paul Marine, 2811, x1888
SUBJECT: ARTIME Buesa, Manuel Francis
(1) A review of CI/OA records reflects that Subject was of interest
to WH/L/PA(SAS) in 1963; CA datal 2 Feb. 61 was Reinstated 30 Sept. 1963.
(2) CI/OA requests that the responsible desk infome CI/OA by
reply whether this case is still active, or whether CI/OA may
cancel and retire its folder.
Lee & Pania the
CI/OA
REPLY ACTING Chief. CI/OA SIGNATURE
DATE
17 Aug 12
TO : A14/4/05
FROM :
SUBJECT: ARTIME Buesa Manuel Frame
(1) Case is: CANCELLED
COPY TO SECURITY
a. Action ( √ ) Circle one: CSC, CSA, CA
b. Inactive 9 AUG 1972
(2) CI/OA may/mannot cancel and retire Subject ille.
f Bory
31-0036 EX 2
SIGNATURE
SECRET
ARTURN TO ORIGINATOR
FORM
USE PREVIOUS
6-67 1631 EDITIONS

14-00000
TO: JOHN M. BURKE: ghd ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN 8
WH/COG/OPS MESSAGE FORAL
TOTAL COPIES
7144/1819 SECRET 3.8 75/1
7 JAN 71
CLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
✓ INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

PER INFO FILE. VR.
FILP. YR, (classification) (date and time filed) (elite) (reference number)
SECRET JUL 21 292 CITE DIRECTOR
TOq37.T
WH/MIAMI
1. FORMER JMWAVE CONTRACT AGENT NIGEL P. YASUINAS C-82064
(IDEN FOLLOWS) CONTACTED HIS JMWAVE CASE OFFICER, NOW AT 7/2
HQS, BY TELEPHONE ON 5 JAN AND REQUESTED THAT SOMEONE FROM
WH/MIAMI CONTACT.HIM. CLAIMED TO 25 IN CONTACT WITH AMBIDDY-1
WHO WANTED TO GET MESSAGE TO JKLANCE ABOUT SOME FORM OF
FOREIGN HARRASSMENT OF AMBEDDY-1. ALSO CLAIMED TO HAVE 714
WHAT APPEARED TO HIM TO BE SIGNIFICANT INFO ON CIENFUEGOS
FROM REFUGEE SOURCE OR SOURCES WHO CONCEALED IT FROM JMOPAL
SCREENERS.
2. NO FILE. GP-1.
END OF MESSAGE
Will Brous
WILLIAM V. BROE
WESLEY L. LAYBOURNE
C/WHD AC/WH/COG
COORDINATING OFFICERS
(GROUP!
Excladed from auterastie
SECRET downgrading and
declassification
REPRODUCTION EF OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING
OFFICCA
COPY NO.
14-00000
IT: JOHN M. BURKE MESSAGE TOAL
WH/COG TOTAL COPES:
SECRET 4
7144/1819
7 JAN 71 ROU
TE AND CHILL
AL SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE BID

PER INFI FILE VIL.
WE Alan Cilare, Calippe El
secret
RE 7 jan 71 292 CITE DIRECTOR
WH/MIAMI
RE DIR 100371 76331 100372

1. IDEN IS RUBEN MARTINEZ, 17240 S. W. 89 COURT,
MIAMI, FLORIDA 33157. TELEPHONE 305-233-7894. EMPLOYED
BY PROVIDENT "MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, MIAMI.

2. NO FILE. GP-1.
Wii Brus
END OF MESSAGE
WILLIAM V. BROK
C/WHD
COORDINATING OFFICERS
WESLEY L. LAYBOURNE
AC/WH/COG
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING
SECRET GROUP!
Encluded from automatic
downgrading and
declosetilation
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO: IIBITED.
14-00000
T: G Al McWade:cb
Posts WH/2/ID
7163/1946
Arc: 9 October 1970
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
INDICES 0 75
TOTAL COPES
SECRET
-
NO INDEX
1
C. 82064
2
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEN B
RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

wins me ve
(classification)
SECRET
(pira)
(date and time in
Veterence pamber)
1278 16 53. CITE DIRECTOR 107,661.5
13 OCT 1970
• DO BASE NEW YORK, TEGUCIGALPA
INFO MANAGUA WH/MIAMI
REF: TEGUCIGALPA 9118 (IN 179726)
1. UNLESS-DO-BASS NEW YORK HESHTS CONTAGIN HOS SEES NO 06 C-8206
NEED AMBI DDY-1) CONTACT, ZUVORKY

2. FILE 201-267437.
END OF MESSAGE
WH Comment: *COS Tegucigalpa met ANBIDDY-1 in Managua 4 Oct.
A/l asked by SAMOZA to join Nicaraguan delegation
to UN Assembly as special advisor. Defer to Has.
contact AlBIDDY-1.
g/DO/I/B2 Bob Baker (Telcoord)
Dwarkh
JOHN MARKHAM
C/DOI/2
C/WH/COC
C/WH/2/N
C/WH/2
wn/coslors
RELEASING OFFICER
WILLIAM V. BROE
COORDINATING OFFICERS
C/WHD
SECRET Included from automatic
downgrading and
A7 CIeballatio
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
FLAST FLABON NOT. SECRET (When Filled in)
ADVANCE COPY ATI ROOTTED PREPR. 15 COPY POCHOD
DDEL. 0000
ROUTING AND/OR CHITLALS-GEEN DY

CLAIMFY TO CS FLE NO.
BEEF TO CO FLE
ACTION UNIT FILE RO RETURN TO BRANCH
WH 8 PER FILE, VE RIIAN, DOP ADDP a. alops ClDA, FIZ,5086
402 ACTION NO. DOP ADDP a
SECRET 1417832 OCT 69 CITE MANAGUA 7158
DIRECTOR INFO SAN SALVADOR, TEGUCIGALPA, PORT AU PRINCE, 140ст 65 65351
UMIAMI

AMBIDDY
REF: A. MANAGUA 78AL (IN 01386)
B. MANAGUA 7859 (107442)
C. MANAGUA 7869 (IN 10406)
15 OCT 1969

D. DIRECTOR 39886
E. MANAGUA 7134(IN 49758),
1. COS MET WITH AMBIDDY-11 NIGHT 13 OCTOBER. HE REPORTED C-82064
ON DEVELOPMENTS OF REFS AS FOLLOWS: AS AMBIDDY WAS PREPARING
LEAVE FOR SALVADOR IN JULY HE WAS VISITED BY SALVADORAN
HUMBERTO RODEZ NO (PHONETIC) WHO HAD LONG SHOPPING LIST OF
ARMS AND AMMUNITION. AMBIDDY EXPLAINED THAT HE COULD NOT
GET INVOLVED IN ANY ARMS EXPORT MATTERS, THAT HE IS WLL
KNOWN AS PBRUMEN PATRIOT AND DOES NOT WISH CHANGE IMAGE FOR
THAT OF ARMS DEALER OR SOLDIER OF FORTUNE. RODEZNO SAID XE
ALREADY IN TOUCH WITH AN AMERICAN IN MIAMI WHO WAS GOING TO
FURNISH 30-06 AMMO AT TEN CENTS A ROUND, SHIP IT FROM INTER-
ARMCO IN VIRGINIA TO CANADA FOR ONWARD SHIPMENT TO SALVADOR.
AMBIDDY WARNED RODEZ NO THAT THE AMERICAN, WHOSE NAME WAS NOT
SECRET
6535
14-00000
L
CABLE SECRETARIAT DESEMNATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING ANDOR SIT ALS BEEN

DANCE CONT SECRET
PEPEOCRITE LOTTED C C
CLAIMFY TO CE FLE NO.
LREF TO CS FLE NO

SUNN BY ACTION PER PIPLE RO RETURN TO BRANCH
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
PAGE 2 MANAGUA 7158 SECRET

GIVEN, WOLD PROBABLY REPORT HIM TO FBI, CIA, BORDER PATROL,
"OR TO THE BOY SCOUNTS". AMBIDDY THEN BROKE OFF CONTACT WITH
RODEZNO AND DECIDED THERE NO REASON TRAVEL TO SALVADOR.

2. TWO DAYS LATER RICARDO ZUNIGA OF HONDURAS APPEARED IN
MIAMI AND CONTACTED AMBIDDY. HE ALSO HAD LONG SHOPPING LIST
RANGING FROM SMALL ARMS TO ONE THOUSAND POUND BOMB. MEETING
TOOK PLACE IN DUPONT PLAZA HOTEL AND ZUNIGA WAS ACCOMPANIED
BY KONDURAN CONSUL "MIKE" (L NU). AMBIDDY GAVE THEM
ESSENTIALLY SAME STORY, COMMISERATED WITH THEM, AS HAD WITH
RODEZNO, SUGGESTED THEY WOULD DO BETTER TO SHOP IN EUROPE,
FOR EXAMPLE BELGIUM OR SPAIN, WHO WOULD SELL TO ANYONE.

ZUNIGA ASKED IF AMBIDDY THOUGHT, FABRIQUE NATIONAL WOULD GRANT
CONFIDENTIAL COMMISSION (KICKBACK) OF AT LEAST TEN PERCENT.
AMBIDDY ASSURED HIM FN WOULD. ZUNIGA TOLD AMBIDDY THAT IF HE,
ZUNIGA, SUCCEEDED IN OBTAINING KICKBACK FROM FN, AMBIDDY
COULD EXPECT TO RECEIVE NICE PRESENT. AMBIDDY HAS HEARD NOTHING
SINCE FROM ZUNIGA BUT HAS HEARD FROM CONTACT IN HONDURAS THAT
ZUNIGA BOUGHT ARMS AND AMMO FROM FN AND BOMBS IN PORTUGAL.
PORTUGUESE GAVE HIM FIVE PERCENT RAKE-OFF. ZUNIGA TRAVELLED
TO EUROPE ON HONDURAN PASSPORT IN ALIAS.
SECRET
14-00000
L
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND OR SIT ALS SEEN LS

FERNOST MOTIVED SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ACTION UNIT ATI LEED SLOTTED CA
LOTTED CLAERFY TO CO PILE NO.
ACTION Na PER SREP TO CS FILE NO.
FILE, VR FLE RO RETURN TO BRANCH

PAGE 3 MANAGUA 7158 SECRET
3. AMBIDDY SAYS HE DID NOT GET INVOLVED IN ANY WAY
IN OBTAINING ARMS FOR EITHER SIDE OTHER THAN REFERRING THEM TO
POSSIBLE FOREIGN SOURCES OF SUPPLY AND HAS NO INTENTION OF
JEOPARDIZING HIS POSITION WITH U.S. BY GETTING MIXED UP IN
ARMS TRAFFIC. HE HAS NO INFORMATION ON ARMS TRAFFIC WITH
HAITI. AMBIDDY STILL HAS COPIES OF SALVADORAN AND HONDURAN
SHOPPING LISTS AND OFFERED SEND THEM TO BARKER.

4. NO INDEX. FILE: 201-267437.
SECRET
SECRET
14-00000
L
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEN NATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

ADVANCE COPY Secret (When Filled in)
LOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND INITIAL S BEEN

INDERE NO
ACTION UNIT FILE NO RETURN TO BRANCH
D
4WH-8 FIL. VE RI/AN, DDP, AddP, CSIDA SODA, CE/CA

SECRET 222223Z SEP 69 CITE MANAGUA 7134
DIRECTOR INFO SAN SALVADOR, TEGUCIGALPA, WH/NIAMI 2249758
REF: DIRECTOR 39886
1. COS NANAGUA HAS NOT SEEN AMBIDDY-1) SINCE SALVADOR/
HONDURAS VAR. ANBIDDY WAS IN TOWN FOR ONE DAY DURING HID-
SEPTEMBER INDEPENDENCE HOLIDAYS AND SENT REGARDS TO BARKER
THROUGH MUTUAL CUBAN FRIEND SAYING WOULD BE BACK IN MANAGUA
SOOR AND WOULD LIKE TO HAVE CHAT. COS WILL ATTEMPT TO
CORRAL HIM IF HE DOES SHOW UP AND ELICIT INFO REQUESTED BY
REF.
2. FLE 281-267437.
SECRET 23 SEP 1959
Dich R

14-00000
AT: RICHARD HARRINGTON
EXT: WH/2/HLEIS
7163/1916
DATE: 22 SEPTEMBER 1969
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

WH 8 FILE.
(date and time filedi
SECRET 22 17 592
TMANANNA LINTA SAN SALVADOR, TECUCIGALPA, WE/MIAMI
REY: MANAGUA 7059 (IN 07442)
23 SEP 1958

(alite)
C-82064
(reterence number)
CITE DIRECTOR 39806
1. REQUEST COS MANAGUA CONTACT (AMBIDDY-1 AND DEBRIEF ON REF
TRIP TO SAN SALVADOR. OF PARTICULAR INTEREST IS ANY INFO
AMBIDDY-1 HAS ON HONDURAS/SALVADOR ARMS PURCHASES.

FYI: ON 17 SEPTEMBER EQS LEARNED FROM IUSTEER-1 THAT
AMBIDDY-1 ARRANGED CONTACT FROM MIAMI FOR A HONDURAS ARMS BUYER TO
PURCHASE ARMS IN SPAIN, FOR THIS SERVICE AMBIDDY-1 WILL RECEIVE

COMMISSION FROM THE HONDURAS ARMS BUYER BASED ON THE TOTAL ARMS
PURCHASE PRICE. DO NOT REVEAL THIS INFO TO AMBIDDY-1.
NO INDEX. FILE: 201-267437 AND 201-283488
END OF MESSAGE

WE/COMMENT: On 22 July COS Managua received urgent phone call from
AMBIDDY-1. AMBIDDY-l said he just received phone call
from salvador and they (Salvadorans) needed eight pilots
and wanted to consult with AMBIDDY. A Salvadoran visa
had been authorized. COS Managua instructed AMBIDDY to
proceed to San Salvador and obtain info on Salvador
war plans. Once he acquired this info AMBIDDY was to
inform the Salvadorans that he could not be involved in
any way. AMBIDDY agreed and told COS Managua that he would
contact COS on his return from the trip to San Salvador.
Til HC/WH/2/NICKT
WA/COG/OPS:
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
Excluded from auteriella
daun rading sind
Asdenilleallten
JOSEPI Y. KIYONAGA
ΑδΥΝΗΣTING
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
OFFICER
:
i
14-00000
ome: Robert C. Yoney ROUTING AND/OR CHILALS-GEEN D

UNIT: A/2/Nicaragua
EDIT: 4489 MESSAGE FORTAL
TOTAL CORE SECRET 2
DATE: 28 July 1969
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
NDER PETURN TO BRANCH
FILE CS FILE
1/Bilan, a lon,fia, SUDC.
(chatate sad time fled)
(eterents cumber)
SECRET
28 22 272 J. 69 CITE DIRECTOR 24584

MANAGUA
Ve
INFO: PORT AU PRINCE, WH/MIAMI
REF: A. PORT AU PRINCE 6311 (IN 10768) 29 JUL 1969

B. MANAGUA 7069 (IN 10406) C-82064
1. HDQS WELCOMES ANY INFO ON AMBIDDY ARMS DEALINGS.
2. IF TELEPHONE ONLY LINK WITH AMBIDDY, COS IN BEST
POSITION DETERMINE POSSIBILITY OF ELICITATION WITHOUT UNDUE
SECURITY RISK.

3. FILE: 201-267437
*Wll Comment: Ref A indicated Port Au. Prince interest in any
info obtained by Managua on AMBIDDY involvement
in arms sales to Haiti. Ref B reported possi-
bility AMBIDDY and Somoza involved in arms
dealings with Duvalier and asked addresses if
they desire COS try elicit info from AMBIDDY.
Robet & Biefe
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WIL DIV
WH/COG
ARLEADING OFFICER
JOHN C. MURRAY
AC/WII/2
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP
focrograding
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
L
CAB.C SECRETARIAT DISSEMOTO CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPES ROUTING ANDVOR DETALS SEEN BY
PERSONUNIT NOTIILO SECRET
ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF TAS COPY FROM.BITED
S CLAERFY TO FILE NO 10
ACTION
WH8
M
FILE BIO PET TO BRANCH
FILON-FI filAN SODE
SECRET 261548Z JUL 1969 CIE PORT AU PRINCE 6311 26 Jul 10768
CRACICOT ACTING)

MANAGUA INFO DIRECTOR , WH/MIAMI
REF: A. MANAGUA 7069 (1) 10406)
B. WH/MIAMI 4789 (1) 09904)

1. APPRECIATE INFORMATION REFS. STATION ALUYAS
INTERESTED IN ANY DUVALIER. OR OPPONENT. ARMS DEALING DUE C-82064
SITUATION IN HAITI, WELCOME ANY INFORMATION AMBIDDY MAY BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE.
2. FILE 201-267437.
SECRET
SECRET
14-00000
L
ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED
TOTAL COPIES
C-82064
E
CLASSIFY TO FILE O 16
BREF TO FILE NO
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
DESTROY
DESSEM OV
ACTION
FILE VIR
FILO,VR 500-6, RIAN, CI, CES, CODEC-2
FI-2, C7/10A
10 FED 69 IN 90565

SECRET 186815Z FEB 69 CITE MANAGUA 6868 11 FEB 1959
DIRECTOR, PANAMA CITY INFO WH/MIAMI C
JUSTEER
REF: DIRECTOR 72449 C-72970
1. STATION FILES SHOW ERYTHROID-1 REQUESTED TRACES
C. 16 DECEMBER 1964 ON RAFAEL GARCIA BORN 4 FEBRUARY 1932,
HABANA, CUBA. WAS ENGINEER EMPLOYED BY MOTOROLA, BEING
CLEARED FOR INSTALLATIN FM RADIO EQUIPMENT FOR ERYTHRCID.
ΟΝΟΤΗER TRACES GARCIA. F
IS REFLECTED
2. BUSINESS PARTNER IS RESLECTED IN STATION FILES
CAS ANTARKY-27 ON WHOM PRESUME HEAD QUARTERS AND WH/MIAMI
Ο HAVE EXTENSIVE MATERIAL. STATION FILES SHOW HIM AS

EXECUTIVE PILOT. 781872
3. FYI KLOOP-115 CLOSELY INVOLVED AS BUSINESS PARTNER
AND PROTECTOR IF CUBAN CROP DUSTING PILOTS IN NICARAGUA.
HAS REPORTEDLY USED HIS OFFICIAL POSITION TO PRESSURE OTHER
PILOTS TO LEAVE COUNTRY SO HE CAN MAKE MORE PROFIT FROM CROP
DUSTING VENTURES HERE.

4. COS CAN PROBAELY OBTAIN CONSIDERABLE INFO ON REF
ACTIVITY DRACING ERLOOP-1 DIRECTLY BUT BELIEVE HEST
14-00000
L
ACTION
AT
SECRET
When filed

C00 64
10.
F60 HSLCY PROH.B:760
254007170
55
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
A-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID R
PEO
RID COPY
FILE, VR
BRANCH DESTROY SIG

PAGE & MANAGUA 6868 SECRET

ULET MATTER LIE AT PRESENT.

300 STATION DOES NOT BELIEVE IDEN D OF REF WOULD BE
INVOLVED ANY PRO-ARIAS ACTIVITY.

COS CAN ELICIT FROM AMBIDDY (IDEN E OF REF) C-83064
WHEN HE NEXT VISITS MANAGUA. HE ALWAYS CHECKS IN WITH

FILE 201-283488, 206-287180, 201-323565.0
.D
SECRET
77
==
14-00000
L
CAL 1 SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filied in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX ES NO
C-82064
ACTION
343 WAP
47+1/48
CLASSFFY TO FILE NO
X-REF TO FILE NO
INFO: FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH DESTROY SIG.
VB RiLAN WHICOGP Clops caloo

6 CAS
SECRET 081957Z JUL 68 CITE PANAMA CITY 6976 (THEBALD ACTING) 0JM/18/6698
JIM COBRA INFO DIRECTOR, MANAGUA 87
REF: MANAGUA 6617 4145324)

1. PANAMA CITY MOST INTERESTED EFFORTS ALFREDO ALEMAN JUNIOR,
C-82064
MINISTER OF HACIENDA, CONTACT AMBIDDY-1. REQUEST AGENT CONTACT
PANAMANIAN CONSUL MIAMI TO SEE IF SHE KNOWS WHAT ALEMAN WANTED.

2. FYI, ALEMAN AMONG THOSE SUPPORTERS OF DAVID SAMUDIO WHO
REFUSING ACCEPT ELECTOR DEFEAT OF SAMUDIO. IT NOT IMPOSSIBLE HE
SEEKING CONTRACT CUBAN EXILE STRONG ARM TYPES.

SECRET BT
9 JUL 1968
File

SECRET

14-00000
L
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET (When Filled In) GROUP I
ACLINOFEN MYSTE
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
12
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED INDER VES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
5
DISSEN BY AT: -X-REF TO FILE NO.
ACTION
10
30 PER FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH DESTROY S
297 WHP FILE VR RiTAN WIHICOGP DAP AROP CSDO

a cabes Glo 5 F/INT2 SaD6 JUL 22 324
SECRET 071937Z JUL 68 CITE MANAGUA 6617 (TRECKLER ACTING)|

DIRECT OR INFO JMCOBRA, PANAMA CITY, PORT AU PRINCE
900L 1968 C-87064
1. AMBIDDY-1 I OLD ACOS 7 JULY THAT HE HAD RECEIVED PHONE
CALL FROM HIS WIFE IN MIAMI ADVISING THAT SOMEONE HAD BEEN
TRY ING CONTACT HIM. AMBIDDY-1 ASSUMES THIS MIGHT BE HIS HAS

CASE OFFICER AND WISHES TO ADVISE HQS THAT HE WILL BE
RETURNING TO MIAMI ON 8 JULY.
2. FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO PICKED UP IN 2 JULY MEETING
WITH AMBIDDY-1 ON EVENTS THAT OCCURRED.

PRIOR HIS
DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI FIRST WEEK JULY:
A. (FNU) BLANCA ROBLES, PANAMA CONSUL IN MIAMI CONTACTED
AMBIDDY-1 AND TOLD HIM PANAMANIAN MINISTER OF HACIENDA WHO WAS
VISITING IN U.S. WANTED TO MEET WITH AMBIDDY-1 TO DISCUSS
UNSPECIFIED URGENT MATTER.
LD
8. EUGENE MAXIMILLIAN, HAITIAN CONSUL IN MIAMI TOLD
AMBIDDY-1 THAT PRESIDENT DUVALLIER WANTED TO SEE HIM. PURPOSE WAS
TO CARRY PRIVATE MESSAGE FROM DUVALIER TO PRESIDENT SOMOZA.

CLAIMED THAT IF AMBIDDY-1 DID THIS DUVALLIER WOUS RELEASE THE
SON OF LEON CANTAVE FROM PRISON. SOMOZA HAS GIVEN AMBIDDY-1
PERMISSION TO MAKE THE TRIP. ACCORDING AMBIDDY-1, HE AND. SOMOZA
FIGURE THIS IS A PLAY BY DUVALIER TO TRY OPEN MORE DOORS
ACCEPTANCE IN LATIN AMERICA. SECRET
-:
>
i
14-00000
L
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES SG ROUTING AND INITIALS SEEN I
FION INITFIED SECRET HIESTAD
ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED
33
C-82064
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COM FADHIBITED
44
67
4-8
HESUILD INDEX VES O
CLAIMFY TO FILE NO.. DESTROY 10
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
NR
WH7 DOH, ADDP, CSDO, EUR 6.
FI, CI/OPS, CI, CI/OA, CI/19 2
ECRET 201986 MAY 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 5618
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE, MADRID PARIS 20 HAY 68 IN 14784
PBRUMEN LISASSY OVER M
REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 5535 (1N08508)
B. MADRID 4911 (1N09784)
1. LISASSY-RETURNED MEXICO CITY 15 MAY. AFTER MADRID VISIT
REF B LISASSY-I VISITED FRANKFURT, EAST AND WEST BERLIN, AND PARIS.
DID NOT CALL CUBAN AMBASSADOR PARIS BECAUSE DECIDED WOULD BE
COUNTER PRODUCTIVE HIS OWN RELATIONSHIP LIRING-9 MEXI. ALCO FELT
ALTHOUGH HE MET AND KNOWS AMBASSADOR SLIGHTLY, THERE WAS STRONG
POSSIBLIITY AMBASSADOR WOULD NOT REMEMBER HIM AND WOULD REFUSE SEE
HIM. PURPOSE LISASSY-1 PLANNED CONTACT WAS TO INFORM THE AMBASSADOR
THAT DR ENRIQUE HUERTAS WHO CONSIDERS SELF MOST REPRESENTATIVE CUBAN
EXILES IS WILLING MEET FIDEL CASTRO TO DISCUSS POSSIBILITY
RAPPROCHEMENT WITH HUERTAS GROUP. DURING 17-18 APRIL MEET MIAMI
HUERTAS CLAIMED HE IN CONTACT WITH HIGH LEVEL PERSONS CASTRO
GOVERNMENT WHO MAY BE RECEPTIVE PROPOSAL RAPPROCHEMENT WITHOUT
CASTRO.
2. LISASSY-1 TOLD STATION ORIGINALLY MIS TRIP EUROPE WAS TO
VISIT PHARMACEUTICAL FIRMS ON BEHALF HIS COMPANY NEW CONTRACEPTIVE
SECRET
