104-10226-10087
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET
(When Filled in)

UNIT

Jane S. Ingle::jg
TFW/Intel/Reports
ROUTING

Ext.

5547
DATS
27 August 1962
Aug 28 13 44Z62

CONFIRMATION COPIES
TFW 12

TDCS -3/520,846 SLCT.

INFORMATION COPIES
CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 5, IW 2, CA 2, CA/PRG, OS, WH 6,
WE 4,

DATE DISTRIBUTED
27 August 1962
PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE

DISSEMINATION
TFW/Int 2 TFW/PROP-PA 1
2 TFW/SI1
2 TFW/WAVE 1
WH/R
WE/3 3
WE/R 1
TFW/FI
TFW/CI 2
TFW/PM 1 WH/PACY 2
BASED ON (IM. Rpt. Prc.)

WAVE-7632 (IN-11670)
WAVE-7114 (IN-46173)
UFG-1396
UNION (UNION-11)
Liaison: G
OS/SSD/Bauman 1
EVALUATION
REQUESTED
STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
W.S. Compton
WE/3/RE (in draft)

CLASSIFICATION
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

TFW/Intel
(When Filled a
YES NO

14-00000-

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY
CUBA
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/520,846

SUBJECT
PLANNED UPRISING BY OPPOSITION
GROUPS IN CUBA
DATE DISTR. 27 AUGUST 1962

DATE OF
INFO.
AUGUST 1962
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES
RD-ACQ-01258
RD-W-2107
IN -46173
-11670
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
FRANCE, PARIS (25 AUGUST 1962)
FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
SOURCE
AN OFFICIAL FRENCH SERVICE.

1. MEMBERS OF THE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA (UR) REPORTED TO THE
FRENCH EMBASSY IN HABANA THAT ON 10 AUGUST THEY WERE INVITED TO ATTEND
A MEETING ON 14 AUGUST ORGANIZED BY THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO
ESTUDIANTIL (DRE) AND THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO
(MRP). THE PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WAS FOR THE THREE GROUPS TO PLAN A
STAGE OF ACTIVE WARFARE. THE UR WAS ADVISED BY THE FRENCH EMBASSY
NOT TO PARTICIPATE, BUT THE UR COULD NOT CONVINCE THE DRE AND THE
MRP TO REVERSE THEIR DECISION FOR AN UPRISING SCHEDULED FOR THE LAST
DAYS OF AUGUST, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN A GENERAL UPRISING OF ALL
INTERNAL RESISTANCE GROUPS.

2. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCARIB

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR RR DIA INS
REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
2
TDCS -3/520,846
11670
47173
PAGE

3. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: AMERICAN EMBASSY, PARIS, TELEGRAM
NO. 984, DATED 26 AUGUST 1962, REPORTED INFORMATION FROM THE FRENCH
AMBASSADOR IN HABANA ON THIS AGREEMENT FOR A GENERAL UPRISING
DURING THE LAST DAYS OF AUGUST.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
