104-10113-10249
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AD Rune Fo. 9368
12 April 1963

ATTENTION :  Chief, CI/SA/Argentina

SUBJECT : Re: (Eshart Fauhrint)
			Operational/Emergency Passport in Alias
			for Use by ARSTALE-1 - AB Case No. 6937

REFERENCE : WH Memorandum dated 5 April 1963, same subject

1.	Transmitted herewith for use as outlined in Reference are the
following two documents issued in alias for ARSTALE-1:(Nicaragua)
Ordinary Passport No. 85701 and U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Form I-94
(stapled in the passport, page 9). Also furnished herewith is a travel
itinerary on which ARSTALE-1 should be briefed before he applies for the
Argentina visa in New York.

2.	In keeping with arrangements made by TOD/AD, the Medical Office
is preparing, for direct delivery to W/4, the International Vaccination
Certificate in alias to be used with the above documents. This certificate
should be checked for accuracy as to name, place and date of issue. It is
also understood that ARSTALE-1 will have received a bona fide smallpox
vaccination prior to departing from the U.S.

3.	W/3/AD prepared the above Nicaragua passport on the strength of
information that BIOXYGENESIS) could instruct an Argentine Consular post in
the U.S. to place a visa in the passport. The document was prepared in one
week from date of request because of operational urgency. The requirement
specified use of a Central American passport. To avoid placing a long,
time-consuming simulated itinerary in the passport, it was given a recent
issuance date, which necessitated issuance on the basis of previous issued
country data earlier (the most recent source available). This short
itinerary also would seem to make application at this time in the U.S. for
an Argentine visa somewhat unusual. Since we are now informed that ARSTALE-1
is to obtain his Argentine visa without BIOXYGENESIS) assistance we wish to
stress the limitations of the documentation provided for this operation,
agreed to by Mr. Martinii, as a matter of record. This confirms discussion
with KY Feabrini. A telephone check with the Argentine Embassy by LI
indicated that a Nicaraguan transient in the U.S. could obtain an Argentine
visa in this country.

SECRET
6803
Excluded fro
downgrading
Sedeclassificatia

4.	It is understood that the passport will be good for about six
months, following which it is to be returned to AD/AB. Should further
operational need exist for this document beyond that time, it must be
borne in mind that the expiration date is 7 March 1959 and that several
revalidations are needed from that time forward. Any such revalidations
would have to be entered by TOD/AD. Also, use of this passport for travel
other than that originally intended (direct from U.S. to Argentina and back
within six months) will require careful scrutiny by SED/AD of the situation
at the time of the intended future travel.

5.	In accordance with verbal arrangements between Encore. Feabrini
cat Palmia) please pass on to TOD/AD details of ARSTALE-1's procurement of
the Argentine visa and any other travel control events of significance in
the use of this passport so that SED/AD may gain from the experience of this
agent in the use of this alias document.

6.	Any further questions concerning this case should be referred to
the undersigned or to Miss Elma Baptiste) on extension 1531.

(Patrick J. Pales)
WE/13

Attachment:	1 Envelope (b/s)
		(Nicaragua) Passport,
		Travel Itinerary

Distribution:
Official 61 - Addressee
1 - CI/SA/W/3 (Info)

SECRET
