104-10291-10017 
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: JACKENHUT CORP.
DOD FILE 775805

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
№ 65805

14-00000
ACTIVATION AND CLOSURE
ACTION SCIEN OFFICE DATE OPENED ACTIVITY DATE SPENTO OFFICE DATE CLOSED

PALLAS
AR. LOUIS
VIAMI

UPLS SYRACUSE
PHIL BASH

PITT GENERAL CLOSURE
REQUIREMENTS
INITIATOR INITIALS ACTIVITY NUMBER REMARKS

LA

MONTHLY REVIEW
INITIAL DATE REMARKS
floyd Burdett 87493 was received
by Berikan CSC+ DDO
floyd Burdett & 87493 to
by Berikan Floyd Burdett
By
Mainuning adend by requested aty, aty thind
Hesturetimes for a step abroad. Floyd Burdett
C/LA/CAR/CARI ed long 09618
pored is objectum.

2702 USE PREVIOUS CONFIDENTIAL E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: (11-36-42)
EDITIONS 06537 (RECORD RESPONSIVE REPORTING ON REVERSE SIDE)

CONFIDENTIAL
DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION
NOTICE OF CASE CLOSURE
DISTIRIBUTION (AS LISTED BELOW) DATE 30 June 1977

Operations Services Group/OSB DCD CASE HUMBLR
Chief, Branch, DCD 65805
HIS DIVISION HAS COUPLETED WORK ON THE ABOVE CASE HUMBER, FOR WHICH REQUIREMENIC WEILE FURNISHED
ER THE FOLLOWING CONTROL NUMBERSI

THE FOLLOWING REPORTS HAVE BEEN SUBMITTEDi

THIS CAGE IS HOW DEING CLOBEDI
DAX ACTION COMPLETED
D. OTHER (DOLAIN)Σ

4. BHOULD INFORMATION SUCSEQUENTLY DE RECEIVED RESPONSIVE TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CASE, THE RESULTING
REPORTS WILL DE PUBLISHED.
A. QUESTIONS MAY DE DIRECTED TO LINDA REINDI Rind DCD, YELLPHONE.
EXTENSION 2268 WALKER"

DISTRIBUHONI
DDO/INT/RQ
DCD Field Offices (check os appropriate)
Bosion XXXX.XXX Mloml San Franclico
Chköjo Minneapolis Seattle
Dollas New York Syracuse
Denver Philadelplila Washington.
Dobrod Piiptungh All Field Office
los Angel St-Louis-
CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
SECRET
Cover and Related Operational lead/US Company Contract
with Sonatrach

DO COLLECTION DIVISIC 65805
Op.. Services Group
somy/2203 20 Decmeber 1976

NE/NA/A MIM-OUR-36564-76
6C18
ATTN: 111 Wagner

Attached for your information.

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 006875

CONFIDENTIAL
leben filled in)
PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS
RESIOT CAS6 OFFICE ORGANIZATION NUMBER FORMAN HUMAFK OIR RELEASED

XMIN 12206 3656476
BUBJECT AND AREA

COVER AND RELATED OPERATIONAL LEAD/US COMPANY CONTRACT
WITH SONATRACH

CONTACT Name Title Organization, Address) INDIVIDUAL NO.. GRAPHICS; MAPS SUBJECT*
Bruce Berkaans PUBLICATIONS, (Name Title Organ
Wackenjut Corporation SPORTS, OTHER US-SOURCE (Nome, Title, Organization, Addr
3200 Ponce De Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

ORGANIZATION NO.
INTERVIEW
40
INDIVIDUAL
42
46 NOT
DISSEMI-
NATED
F. BUFFICIENTLY
WELL KNOWN
BY FOTHER
AGENCIED
4. OTHER/MIS- COMBINED WITH INSUFFICENT ORGANIZATION NO. CESSIN EVALUATION,
AL INTEREST 52
METHOD OF COLLECTION REQUESTED FROM TRIP REPORT
EVALUATION, EXCHANGESICOL. 35)
1-EXCHANGE
3. COMMERCIAL
OTHER (Specify, below) HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS
2-BILATERAL
4. ARTICLE IV
OTHER DOCUMENT OFFICER OFFICER FIELD COMMENTS
DIRECTED TO OSG SREECG ETF ORSK
OSB
Process sheet typed in OSG/OSB per
SOALMU
MIAMI TWX 13718
star that it. AJAJA

Bi prohibitions to patic operat is in at the highest print. Also
much it. caning to the 3.
still to thy wil bir cin
15 thel en wh.
2
will be in (20-41)
wiil b
4th
170 INDIVIDUAL NO
INTERNAL USE ONLY
E-2 IHPDET CL BY 011668
MRO COUNTRY
KIC F.C. CHIEF
GRACE 852657585960616263646565
KIA
Mainwaring CES OFFICCH BRANCH 'SECTION CHIEF
FORM 25 Mainwazing Almy /OSB
7-75 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS CONFIDENTIAL E2 IMPOET CL BY 006687 3

SECRET 162040Z DEC 76 SIAFF
CINE DCD/MIAMI 13718
TO: DCD/HEADQUARTER S
TO: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP (ALMY) FROM MAINWAR ING

WNINIEL WOMACE INTERNAL USE ONLY

OIR-36564-76
SUBJECT/AREA: COVER AND RELATED OPERATIONAL LEAD/US COMPANY
CONTRACT WITH SONATRACH (ALGERIA)
C/S: BRUCE BERKMANS
WACKENHUT CORPORATION
3200 PONCE DE LEON BOULEVARD
CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA
METH OF COLL: INTERVIEW DEC 17 9 15 AM 176
FIELD COMMENTS: CONFIRMIG SIELSON/MAINWAR ING TELECON WE RECOGNIZE
HAT DOI 52-10 MAY PRECLUDE THIS USE AS CURRENTLY INTERPRETED.
ACTIVITY WOULD BE CONDUCTED THROUGH A SUBSIDIARY AND INVOLVES THE
PROTECTIVE, NON-INVESTIGATORY, CLIMATE OF THE COMPANY.
10: B.E. HAINWAR ING
E2 IMPDET CL BY 211668
SECRET

INTERNAL USE CALY
SECRET 162332Z DEC 76 STAFF
CITE DCO/MIAMI 13719

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS.
WHINTEL WOMACE INTERNAL USE ONLY
MIAMI OIR-36564-76- DEC 17 915 AM 76

SUBJECT COVER AND RELATED OPERATIONAL LEAD/US COMPANY CONTRACT
WITH SONATRACH
REF: DCD CASE 65835
DCD CASE 65131

1. US CITIZEN, A FORMER PROFESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER, NOW
AN EXECUTIVE WITH A MAJOR PRIVATE SECURITY COMPANY

2. SENIOR OFFICIALS OF THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION, MAJOR INTER-
'NATIONAL SECURITY AND PROTECTIVE ORGANIZATION, ARE IN THE FINAL
STAGES OF NEGOTIATING A US 45 MILLION CONTRACT WITH THE ALGERIAN
NATIONAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY, SONATRACH. THIS NEW CONTRACT RESULTS
FROM AN EARLIER SURVEY PERFORMED BY WACKENHOT FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF
ALGERIA. THIS EARLIER WORK INVOLVED STUDY OF 42 FACILITIES AND
LOCATIONS, INCLUDING REFINERIES, PIPELINE TERMINALS, PORTS, OIL
AND GAS FIELDS, POWER PLANTS, LNG PLANTS, LPG PLANTS, AND OTHER
CRITICAL PRODUCTION AREAS. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS ENCOMPASSED
THE FOLLOWING:

A. EVALUATION OF THE CRITICALITY AND VULNERABILITY OF THE SITES

3. SECURITY FORCES ORGANIZATION AND EQUIPMENT
C. SAFETY ORGANIZATIOUS AND EQUIPMENT

D. MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND EQUIPMENT

E. INDUSTRIAL BURN AND TRAUMA HOSPITALS
AUTERNAL BISE BIT

F. PitYSICAL SAFEGUARD'S

G. ACCESS CON. JLS

H. DETECTION SYSTEMS

I. TERDICTION (RESPONSE SYSTEMS

J. DISASTER AND EMERGENCY PLANS

K. TRAINING REQUIREMENTS AND RESOURCES

L. FI..A..CIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ASPECTS
MINSPECTION AND TEST ING

NO. NATIONAL PROTECTION STANDARDS

O. PREPARATION OF DETAILED SPECIFICATIONS FOR A REQUEST FOR
INTER NATIONAL TENDER

P. PLANNING FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A NATIONAL SYSTEM OF
INDUSTRIAL SECURITY.

3. A COPY OF THIS FIRST SURVEY CAN PROBABLY BE ACQUIRED.

4. THE NEW CONTRACT, UNDER DISCUSSION, BUT ALMOST CERTAIN TO
BE CONCLUDED, INVOLVES:

A. THE SERVICES OF NUMEROUS ON-SITE MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL ADVISORY
AND TRAINING PERSONNEL.

B. THE IDENTIFICATION, EVALUATION, SELECTION AND PROCUREMENT OF
DESIGNATED ITEMS OF SECURITY, SAFETY, FIRE PROTECTION AND
ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT.

C. PROVIDING ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING PLANS FOR AN INDUSTRIAL
BIRN AND TRAUMA HOSPITAL, A FIRE DEPARTMENT, A SECURITY CONTROL
CENTER, A SAFETY INSPECTION LABORATORY, A TRAINING INSTITUTE,
AND AN EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE FACILITY, AND THE SUBSEQUENT
CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPPING, AND OPERATION OF THESE FAC IL IT IES.

D. PROVIDING DESIGN ENGINEERING PLAUS FOR AN EMERGENCY COMMUNI
CATIONS SYSTEM, AS WELL AS THE PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT,
INSTALLATION, AND CHECK-OUT OF THE SYSTEM.

2. FURNISHING PRE-FABRICATED MODULAR STRUCTURES TO BE USED AS
INTERILE FACILITIES FOR PERSONEL LIVING QUARTERS AS WELL AS
OFFICER AND OPERATIONS QUARTER 3.

5. INTEGRAL TO THESE ARRANGENENTS, IS EXTENSIVE STAFFING WITH ON-
SITE US EINSONNEL WHO WILL DE IN REGULAR CONTACT WITH SONATRACH
OFFICIALS AF ALL LEVELS. A LONDON EXECUTIVE PLACEMENT COMPANY WILL
HANDLE SONE STAFF SELECTION. THERE WILL BE CONSIDERABLE TRAINING
OF ALGER IANS IN THE US, PROBABLY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI AND
FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (MIAMD.

6. THE PRECED ING WAS VOLUNTEERED FOR POSSIBLE OPERATIONAL
CONSIDERATION ON A VERY PRELIMINARY ABO NONCOMBITAL BASIS. E2
INPDEI CL BY 211558
SECRET INTEROR GRF ONLY

Bruec Berkmans
DOM DIVISION 65805
Op. 2205
French/mv
SA/DDO
281415 Attached for your information.
ATIN: Mr. Anthony Goldin

cc: Copy sent to C/LA/CARI

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 906875
SECRET
SECRET 10LAGCZ SEP 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13510
TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS.
TO: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSG (FRENCH) FROM MAINWARING

WNINTEL

SUBJ, DCD CASE 65805 - BRUCE BERKMANS

REF: MAINWARING/FRENCH TELECON OF 9 SEPTEMBER 1976, SAME SUBJECT

1. FOR THE RECORD, THE PRIMARY PURPOSE FOR BRUCE BERKMANS
REQUEST THAT I SEE HIM WAS TO ENABLE HIM TO REFER A POSSIBLE
APPLICANT FOR STAFF EMPLOYMENT TO THE AGENCY. I WILL INFORMALLY
RAISE THIS MATTER WITH THE PERSONNEL RECRUITER WHEN HE IS REXT
IN THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE. BERKMANS HAD NO PERSONAL INTEREST
IN THIS MATTER AND WAS SIMPLY TRYING TO PLAY THE ROLLE OF A HELPFUL
INDIVIDUAL.

2. HE ALSO REVIEWED SOME PROJECTS THAT HIS ORGNIZATION WILL
BE INVOLVED IN BOTH LATIN AMERICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST. AS OF
THIS DATE IT IS TO EARLY TO DETERMINE WHETHER WE MIGHT HAVE ANY
INTEREST IN THESE MATTERS. RIGHT NOW WE HAVE NO REPORTABLE INTEL
OR OPERATIONAL MATERIALS.

3. BERKMANS ALSO DISCUSSED HIS COMPANY'S APPROACH TO EXECUTIVE
PROTECTION AGAINST THE THREAT OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM. THIS
MAY BE STILL ANOTHER AREA IN WHICH HE MIGHT OCCASIONALLY VOLUNTEER
A USEFUL ITEM.

4. AS NOTED EARLIER, SINCE HIS DECISION TO REFRAIN FROM ANY
LITIGATION INVOLVING THE AGENCY, HE SEEMS TOTALLY RELAXED MY
PERSONAL APPRAISAL NOW IS THAT HE WILL POSE NO PROBLEMS FOR US
IN THE FUTURE DESPITE THE UNPLEASANTNESS OF A FEW YEARS AGO.
E2 IMPDET.CL BY 211668
SECRET

JVRENCH/M 2268 ROUTINE
SECRET 15734
29. JUNE 1976 2:30 1 1

DCD/HLAMI
FROM: DCD/HEADQUARTERS (OSC/FRENCH)

SUBJECT: CASE 65805
A) DCD TIAMI 13387, 29 JUNE 1976
B) MAINWARING/FRENCH PHONECON OF 29 JUNE
THE ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL FOR THE DEO FORSERS NO PROBLEM IN
ACCEDING TO BRUCE BERKHANS' REQUEST FOR ANOTHER MEETING, IN FACT, IT
MAY HELP DEVUSE THE SITUATION. ALLA FUTURE REQUESTS OF THIS NATURE
SHOULD BE REPORTED TO DCD HEADQUARTERS AND WILL BE HANDLED ON A CASE
BY CASE BASIS.

E-2- IMPDET CLBY 006875
SECRET

CASE 65805
DOM DIVISION
Operation Croup/OSB
JFrench/m
Office of Inspector
General 2224 HQS.

6 July 1976

Attached for your
information.
Copy sent to
SA/DDO
LA/CAR

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 006875 :
PET

SECRET 021730Z JUL 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/MIAMI 13398
TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

ATIN OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP (FREICH)
SUBJ: CASE 65805 JUL 2 3 os fit 76
REF: DCD/HEADQUARTERS 15734

1. I MET AGAIN ON 2 JULY 1976 VITA BRUCE BERKMANS, IMMEDIATELY
HE REITERATED WHAT HE HAD ALREADY TOLD FE OF THE TELEPHONE:
AFTER CONSULTATIONS WITH HIS ATTORNEY AND CONSIDERABI E REFLECTION
HE HAS DECIDED THAT HE WILL NOT SUE THE AGENCY OR ANY STAFFERS:
OR FORMER STAFFERS. HE ATTRIBUTES THIS DECISION TO WHAT HE ১
CALLED THE INORDINATE COSTS IN BOTH TIME LED MONEY. HE ALSO
VOLUNTEERED HIS FEELING THAT THE AGEBOT DES BEING KICKED FROM
EVERY SIDE AND HE DID NOT WISH TO ADD TO THE PROBLEM.
1
2. BERKMANS WAS CONSIDERABLY MORE COMPOSED AND RELAXED AT
THIS SECOND MEET ING ALMOST AS IF HE WERE RELIEVED AT FINALLY HAVING
COME TO A DECISION. HE THEN REPEATED WAT APPEARS NOW TO BE A
SINCERE OFFER TO ACT ON A VOLUNTARY BASIS AND IN A NONOPERATIONAL
CAPACITY AS A NORMAL DCD CONTACT. HE PENTIONED VOLUNTARILY THAT
HE HAD SOUGHT AND OBTAINED THE CONSENT OF HIS BOSS GEORGE
WACKENHUI IN THIS RESPECT.

3. THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT BERKMANS IS INVOLVED IN VARIOUS
FOREIGN PROJECTS WHICH COULD BE OF INFORMATIONAL INTEREST TO US.
I WAS, NONETHELESS, DELIBERATELY VAGLE AND NONCOMMITTAL WITH
REGARD TO HIS OFFER. I AM, HOWEVER, LESS WARY OF SOME SORT OF
RELATIONSHIP HAN I MIGHT HAVE BEEN BASED PURELY ON OUR FIRST
INTERVIEW. IN ANY EVENT THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT WE WILL HEAR
FROM BRUCE BERKMANS AGAIN. E2 IMPORT CL BY 211668
SECRET

DCD Case 65805
Jon French
DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION
Cperations Series Croup/53
110 Key Lάς.--03
Case 65805
2 July 1976

LA/COR
Lloyd Burdett-3 8 4402 Bq.
cc: SA/DDO
Attached for your information is
a copy of Miami TWX 13387.

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 006875
Care
65.8 آن
Jus 29 175
SECRET 2914307 JUN 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13387.
TO: DCD/HEADQUARTER'S
4
ATTN: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP (FRENCH)
:
SUBJ: DCD CASE 65805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF
WACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER

FYI, BRUCE BERKMANS TELEPHONED ME AT MY HOME LATE ON
28 JUNE 1976 TO TELL ME THAT AFTER CONSULTATIONS WITH
HIS ATTORNEY HE HAS DECIDED NOT TO SUE THE AGENCY.
E2 İMPDET CL BY 011668
SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CIA/DCD REQUIREMENT CONTROL SHEET
OCO CASE NO DATE OPENED 	LIATF	PROC			REQUIREMENT	 DATE OF DOCUMENT
SERIAL NURPBER
MO DA YA MOYR INITIATOR
04 τη
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 2מת
5 06580
39
SUBJECT OF REQUIREMENT 66S2 7CPLA760449062369
Request for contact: Wackenhut Corporation
ROUTING DATE INITIALS CATEGORY OF REQUIREMENT (Dock Officer chack one)
1-OSG/French O-ECONOMIC S-SOCIOLOGICAL
1-SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL 8-GEOGRAPHIC
2-POLITICAL 7-BIOGRAPHIC
3. SV/CONTROL/CASE DESK 3-MILITARY 8-MISCELLANEOUS

XXX DED ACTION ON REQUIREMENT (Dosk Officer check as appropriatel
1. Requirement is accepted for action, under the above DCD case number, on the following basia:
A being forwarded to the field. (Specify, under "Remarks")

Capability is known or believed to exist.
Capability is uncertain, but field resources suggest possibility of collection.
No capability is believed to exist at present, but requirement will be used if capability develops,
B. It will be retained at headquarters.
The field is already alert to the need and will continue to report as information is obtained.
Sources capable of at least partial fulfillment may become available; requirement will be drawn upon for their
guidance.

II. Requirement is not accepted for action, for reasons given under "Remarks." It will/will not be retained for
information and use if opportunity develops.

III. Decision is deferred, for reasons given under "Remarks," pending:
Further discussion.
Investigation of other collection potential
Investigation of other customer interest.
A.
B.
C.
JD. Review (by originator) of latest information, including report(s)

E. Further development of the requirement.
REMARKS

DATE SIGNATURE OF DOD DESK OFFICER
COPY #1-RETAINED BY DESK OFFICER Classified by 006687. Exempt from general
daclassification schedule of E.O. 11652.
Exemption category 58(2), Impossible to
determine date of automatic declassification.
FORM 3734
10-74 MFG 12-74 CONFIDENTIAL SECRET (20-37)

MEMORANDUM FOR: DCD/OSB 23 June 1976

ATTENTION : Mr. Jon French.
SUBJECT : Contact with Former Staff Agent

1. This will confirm our green line telephone
conversation of 22 June 1976 concerning a recommendation
that DCD contact Mr. Bruce Berckmans Jr., (201-309117),
a former staff agent under the LPGLOBE program. Mr.
Berckans recently telephoned an Agency staff officer with
whom he is acquainted, indicating that he had information
of interest and needed to talk with some one from the
Agency. Mr. Berekmans is currently employed by the
Wackenhut Corporation in the Miami area.

2. We discussed this case with Mr. Anthony Goldin,
Assistant General Counsel/DDO, who felt that a representa
tive of the Agency should meet with Mr. Berckmans to sée
what he had on his mind. Mr. Goldin said we would not
be in violation of any Agency regulations or guidelines
since Mr. Berekmans was the one requesting the meeting.
Mr. Goldin recommended that contact be made through ăn
overt employée (DCD) rather than through the LA/Miami
Station.

3. Upon learning of your two immediate intel reports
on 22 June, from private investigator sources, concerning
plans for possible assassination of Caribbean leaders, we
felt there may be a connection between these reports and
Mr. Berckmans' information. It is for that reason that
we suggested thật DCD might want to, move rapidly on this
matter.

4. As mentioned on the green line, Mr. Berckmans
address is 3941 Midway St., Miami, Florida; his telephone
number is (area code 305) 443-2260.

L. Bumest
Lloyd C. Burnett
C/LA/CAR/CARI
SEGRET E2 IMPDET
CL by 012913

SECRET
23 June 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR: DCD/OSB

ATTENTION : Mr. Jon French
SUBJECT : Contact with Former Staff Agent

1. This will confirm our green line telephone
conversation of 22 June 1976 concerming a recommendation
that DCD contact Mr. Bruce Berckmans Jr., (201-309117),
a former staff agent under the LPGLOBE program. Mr.
Berckmans recently telephoned an Agency staff officer with
whom he is acquainted, indicating that he had information
of interest and needed to to talk with some one one from the
Agency. Mr. Berckmans is currently employed by the
Wackenhut Corporation in the Miami area.

2. We discussed this case with Mr. Anthony Goldin,
Assistant General Counsel/DDO, who felt that a representa
tive of the Agency should meet with Mr. Berckmans to sco
what he had on his mind. Mr. Goldin said we would not
be in violation of any Agency regulations or guidelines
since Mr. Berckmans was the one requesting the meeting.
Mr. Goldin recommended that contact be made through an
overt employée (DCD) rather than through the LA/Miami
Statión.

3. Upon learning of your two immediate intel reports
on 22 June, from private investigator sources, concerning
plans for possible assassination of Caribbean leaders, we
felt there may be a connection between these reports and
Mr. Berckmans information. It is for that reason that
we suggested that DCD might want to move rapidly on this
matter.

4. As mentioned on the green line, Mr. Berckmans!
address is 3941 Midway St., Miami, Florida; his telephone
number is (area code 305) 443-2260.

SEOSET Lloyd. C.. Burnett
C/LA/CAR/CARI
F2 IMPDET
CL by 012913

OOe called bert malt
no proble deusded not til
foll aly
help defuse soluted apat
bl not repelently mentally
w XF5309 Read
231415
OGC/DOO
A. L
Carf tote tody
one is
weld her up

Jun 23 10
SECRET 2314452 JUN 16 STAFF
CITE DCD/MIAMI 13374
TO: DCD/HEADQUARTER'S
ATTUS OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSB (FRENCH) FROM PALAVARNING

SUBJ CASE 65805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF
WACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER

REF DCD/HEADQUARTERS 19603
I AM MEETING BRUCE BERCKMANS, JR., AT 0800 ON 24 JUNE 1976
AT MACKENHUT OFFICES. PLEASE ADVISE IF IT WOULD BE USEFUL PRIOR
TO THE MEETING TO KNOW SOMETHING OF THE DROUMSTANCES UNDER YING
THE FINAL STATEMENT IN PARAGRAPH ONE OF REFERENT. E2 INPDET CL
BY 011668.
SECRET
23

SECRET 24.1400Z JUN 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/MIAMI 13377

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS INFO DIRECTOR
ATTN:-090 (FRENCH)
SUBJA CASE 63885

REF DCD/HEADQUARTERS 15683
RYBAT TRULE WEDISH
1. I MET BRUCE BERCKMANS AT HIS WACKENHUT OFFICE THIS
MORNING AS SCHEDULED. BERCKMANS BEGAN THE INTERVIEW BY
REQUEST ING THAT I READ A MULTIPAGE LETTER WHICH HE IS THINKING
OF SENDING TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL. IT IS A DETAILED
STATEMENT OF GRIEVANCES STEMNING FROM HIS FORCED RESIGNATION
AND INDICATES THAT HE IS CONSIDERING A SUIT AGAINST THE AGENCY.
HE HAS IN FACT RETAINED COUNCIL, APPARENTLY ANOTHER FORMER
AGENCY STAFFER, BUT THEY HAVE NOT YET DECIDED WHETHER TO
PROCEED WITH LEGAL ACTION, OTHER ELEMENTS SHOULD PROBABLY BE
INFORMED.

THE PRECED ING NOT WITHSTANDING, BERCKMANS, WHO IS
FOND OF SAYING THAT HE RESIGNED FROM THE AGENCY BUT NOT THE
UNITED STATES, OFFERED TO SERVE AS A FAIRLY TYPICAL DCD
CONTACT WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION HE DERIVES IN HIS
REGULAR WAC KE NHUT DUTIES, BERCKMANG UNDOUBTEDLY HAS MANY
USEFUL CONTACTS ESPECIALLY IN LATIN AMERICA AND SOOM IN
THE MIDDLE EAST, UNDER NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES THIS MIGHT
BE A USEFUL INFORMATIONAL RELATIONSHIP.

3. I TOLD BERCKMANS, HOWEVER, THAT IN VIEW OF ΤΗΣ
CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH I ABOVE I FELT IT.
INAPPROPRIATE FOR US TΟ ΜΑΙΝΤΑΙΝ ANY SYSTEMATIC RELATIONSHIP
AT THIS TIME. SHOULD HE DECIDE NOT TO PROCEED WITH HIS
SUIT AND OTHER THINGS FALL INTO PLACE, PERHAPS A FUTURE
USEFUL CONTACT COULD BE ESTABLISHED.

IN DESCRIBING HIS DUT IES BERCKMANS DID DROP ONE MINOR
PIECE OF INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT BE USEFUL AGAINST THE CURRENT

PAGE 2 DCO/MIAMI 13377 SECRET
JAMAICAN SITUATION. THROUGH A SUBCONTRACTOR HIS COMPANY IS
CONSIDERING A CONTRACT IN JAMAICA WHICH WOULD PROVIDE
CUSTODIAL SERVICES FOR REVERE BAUXITE HOLDINGS WHICH THE
COMPANY IS APPARENTLY PLANNING TO MOTNBALL, E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668.
SECRET
5. FILE OSE CASE 65805

Birditt
Floyd Berkit s
2
Relay DIR 216776

H/ 2268 SECRET 15603
PRIORITY
22 JUNE 1976 1:00 1 1
DCD/HLANI

FROM: DCD/HEADQUARTERS (JFRENCH/OSC)
WJECT NEW CASE 65805

LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF MACKENHUT CORPORATION
1. THIS CASE IS RESPONSIVE TO REQUIREMENT CONTROL NUMBER CPLA-760449
AND OBJECTIVE ,
LA DIVISION HAS REQUESTED DED ASSISTANCE DI RECONTACTING BER-
GIDIANS, JR., DORECTOR OF ENTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS OF MACKENHO-
CORPORATION, CORAL MABLES, VLA, LA DIVISION PROVIDED THE FOLL
ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE HUMBER 3941 MIDWAY ST
BERCHMANS (309) 443-2260.
IS A FORMER AGENCY NON-OFFICIAL COVER OFFICER WHO WAS AKKED TO
RESIGN FROM THE AGENCY IN 1970.

2. THROUGH AN LA DIVISION OFFICER, TOM CLENES, BERCKMANS HAS
REQUESTED CONTACT WITH AN AGENCY REPRESENTATIVE AS HE HAS INFORMATION
WHICH MAY BE OF INTEREST TO THE AGENCY. THE NAME OF TOM CLINES MAY BE
USED TO FACILITATE CONTACT WITH BERCKMANS. LA DIVISION HAS REQUESTED
EXPEDITIOUS HANDLING OF THIS REQUEST AS THEY BELIEVE THAT BEECKMANS MAY
HAVE INFORMATION ON POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN JAMAICA.

3. LA DIVISION HAS EMPHASIZED THAT THIS REQUEST IS ONLY IN RESPONSE
TO BERCKMANS REQUEST FOR CONTACT WITH THE AGENCY, LA DIVISION HAS NO
OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN BERCKMANS NOR HIS COMPANY, OFFICE OF GENERAL
-COUNSEL HAS CONCURRED IN CONTACTING BERGKMANS BY DCD MIAMI.
