104-10169-10006 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC. DASSEM BY:
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT INFO
ACTION
5/3
T 441386

RF. FILE. VR

TOR:8618552 AUG 73

SECRET 8615272 AUG 73 STAFF
CITE WHAMIAMI 19175
TO: GUAYAQUIL INFO DIRECTOR. SAN JOSE, QUITO GUATEMALA,
MEXICO CITY
REF: QUAYAQUIL 17852 (IN 991390)

1. FOLLOWING ARE STATION TRACES SUBJECTS REF:

A. EVELIO DUQUE SUBJECT POSSIBLY IDENTICAL EVELIO DUQUE MIYAR AKA LUIS MARTIN HERNANDEZ (201-302006). FILE WAS TRANSFERRED HOS MAY 1968. INDEX CARDS REFLECT DOB REPORTED AS 13 JAN 27 AND 13 DEC 26. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A12 418 168. PER UFGH 271, 27 FEB 61, SUBJECT MAS ONE OF MOST WANTED GUERRILLA LEADERS ESCAMBRAY AND HAD BEEN OBJECT INTENSIVE SEARCH BY CUBAN GOVT. HIS QUERRILLA GROUP HART KNOWN AS LEGION DEMOCRATICA CONSTITUCIONAL (LDC). ENTERED U.S. 5 JUNE 61 AT MIAMI. POA WAS GRANTED AUG 61. PER SEPT 61 FOI REPORT, DUQUE HAS COMMANDER ANTI-CASTRO FORCES FROM AUG 60-APR 61..

D. HERMINEO DIAI IN 1964. ONE HERMINIO DIAL BARCIA (201-203846) WAS REPORTEDLY SMUGGLING NARCOTICS OR

8201-0203040
D200-11-11/3
Day-120-25

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
ACTION
T 441386

RF. FILE VR

TOR10618552 AUG 73

ACTING AS COURIER BETWEEN NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS IN MEXICO AND U.S.. USING PUERTO RICAN DOCUMENTATION. WOULD VISIT HIS MEXICAN WIFE WHO RESIDED HAVANA. THEY HAVE SON WHO BORN U.S. IT ALSO RUMORED THAT DIAZ HAD MEETINGS WITH LOCAL MEXICAN POLICE SHIEF WHO PERSONAL FRIEND. DIAZ TRAVELLED FREQUENTLY BETWEEN MIAMI AND NEW YORK AND ALWAYS SEEMED. TO HAVE LARGE AMOUNTS MONEY. ANOTHER 1965 REPORT INDICATED DIAZ WAS MILITARY COORDINATOR 30TH NOVEMBER MOVEMENT AND WAS ONE OF GROUP WHICH ATTEMPTED INFILTRATE CUBA 1966,

2. SLIGO TRACES CONTAIN NO INFORMATION CONNECTING DUQUE WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING. THEY OF OPINION DIAZ IDENTICAL WITH SANDALIO HERMINO DIAZ GARCIA WHO WAS REPORTED BY CUBAN RADIO AS HAVING BEEN KILLED DURING 1966 ATTEMPT TO INVADE ISLAND. HE WAS ALSO REPORTED 1966 AS POSSIBLE GOC AGENT INFILTRATED U.S. ONLY ADDITIONAL SLIGO INFO ON DUQUE AS FOLLOWS: DPOBI 18 JAN 1927, LAS VILLAS. DURING STRUGGLE WITH BATISTA REGIME, SUBJECT WAS MEMBER "13TH OF MARCH REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORATE," AND JOINED QUERRILLAS ESCAMBRAY 1958. IN JAN 1959, JOINED REBEL ARMY WITH RANK OF SARGEANT. HAS

CABLE SEC DIOSEM BY.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED HOTTER
ACTION UNIT
ACTION

RF. FILE. VR.
T 441386

PAGE 83-83
TOR:0618552 AUG 73

ACTIVE EXILE GROUPS U.S. AND CONNECTED WITH RECE. IN 1963, HE HAS ACCUSED BY ORLAND BOSCH AVILA OF MISAPPROPRIATION FUNDS GIVEN HIM TO CARRY OUT WARLIKE ACTIVITIES AGAINST CUBA. BOSCH CLAIMED DUQUE USED FUNDS ON WOMEN AND PARTIES AND DEMPED ARMS HE RECEIVED INTO SEA. NO OTHER INFO.
3. FILE: 208-11-11/31 24-120-25. E2, IMPDET
