2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: 8

INFO: O, ADDP, DODS/L, DODS 4, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP,
CA/C 4, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 2, 16.
LE 4, WE 4, WH, OD/1, AD/CI 2, AD/NE, AU/RR 3, VR.

SECRET 2100302 DEC 21 Ø1472 63 IN 85247

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 7489

INTEL TYPIC DEEIGNET

REF DIR 70123

SUPDATA SOURCE DISIGNET FROM [ITALINA AND [FRENCH] AMEASSADORS TO
CUBA, CUBAN MERCHANTS AND SUGAR EXPERTS

FILED 21/00352

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HMM-8185 SUBJECT EFFORTS
OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO INITIATE COMMERCIAL BARTER WITH WEST
EUROPEAN CONTRIES DOI DEC 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 20 DEC 63

APR 3 30URCE WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY
TO CUBA WHERE HIS COMPANY MAINTAINS COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACK
TD FORT 'ON OF
MADE CU
E HAD
THE AGNCY FOD
RELEASE BY THE ACI ON UNIT.
RELEASING DATE DISTRIBUTED BASED C TDCS
PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
PRIORITY

SECRE
14732480

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLICENSE AGENCY
his matrial contains information effecting the National Catama of the United States at thing of 130 tat
eaning within the meaning of the Espionage Lame Title 15.10.
the tranemiciAction al chich is s
COUNTRY SECRET REPORT NO. TDCS
Fill(R) DATE CIS73
ClabourAYION - LIGOELMINAVION CONTROLS

GUCCOT FRICODENCS
DATE OF 2
INFO. 65247
PLACE & FIELD REPORT NO.
CATE ACO.
AFFRAISAL THIS & UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL CF CONTENT 13 PENTATIVE.
REFERENCES

COULOF

1. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT KAS RENEWED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE
PAYMENT OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM EXPROPRIATIONS MADE FROM CERTAIN
WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
TRADE IS TRYING TO INTEREST WEST GERMANY, ITALY AND FRANCE IN
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES SO THAT A FAVORABLE ATMOSPHERE WILL PREVAIL
AT THE TIME OF THE COMPLETION OF THE SUCAR CROP HARVEST IN MARCH
1984, WHEN THE COMMODITY IS NORMALLY MARKETED. NEGOTIATIONS FOR
REPARATIONS ARE TAKING FORM IN CUCAN OFFERS TO SELL TOBACCO AT
DISCOUNT PRICES.

2. IN ORDER OF PRIORITY, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO COTAIN
SECRET
CLASCIFICATION - DIGCOMINATION CONTROLS

23A HIC

314 Ct
CN
cca
Camy
C
LITCRAWA | INFORMATION REPORT TELEGιιεικι
:
TO
ACTION
INFO.
NO
:
MAS
الية
RELEASING:

SECRET

CLAMIFICAT COUROU

FERTILIZER, TRANSFORTATION FACILITIES, AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS IN
EXCHANGE FOR SUCAR ON A STRAIGHT DARTER DEAL. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
EXPECTS A CUKCER CROP IN 1964 WHICH, IF CCLD AT THE AVERACE
WORLD PRICE CF 8 CENT A POUND (US CURRENCY), SHOULD PRODUCE
ABOUT E MILLION DOLLARS (US) IN CREDITS.
3. FIELD COMMENT. SOURCE SAID THAT EXAMINATION OF THE CROP
CONFIRMS THAT IT IS ONE OF THE DEST CUDA HAS HAD IN YEARS.

4. FIELD DISSEM STATE ECON CINCSO.

SA
SECRET
4732
85217
