104-10117-10075 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUPPLEMENTAL PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

Submit in duplicate. Answer all questions completely. If question does not apply, write "NA." Write "UNKNOWN" only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. If additional space is required use extra pages the same size as this page and sign each such page. Reference each continued item by section and item number to which it relates.

SECTION 1.

1. FULL NAME (last-first-middle) 2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country) 4. SOC SEC NO.
Flores, Daniel 094 Aug 1935 San Marcos Texas 460-48-6230

5. PRESENT STATUS (Single, widowed, divorced, or annulled) SPECIFY: Marriedo 30

6. STATE DATE. PLACE. AND REASON FOR ALL DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS
"NA"

SECTION 11. SPOUSE

1. NAME OF SPOUSE (last-first-middle-maiden) 2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. PLACE OF BIRTH (spouse)
Flores, (Dorothy Arnett)06 0931 Jan) 1935 Portland, Oregon

4. DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE 5. CITIZENSHIP OF SPOUSE (If naturalized, indicate date & place of naturalization & certificate no.)
18 November 1960 USA
(Lima, Peru) 10

6. STATE DATE, PLACE. AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS
"NA"

7. OCCUPATION 8. PRESENT EMPLOYER
Legal Secretary (Arnold and Porter) 08

9. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State & Zip Code Country if not U.S.)
об
1229 19th Street NW, Washington, D.C.

SECTION 111. RESIDENCE (Since date of last PHS, if overseas residence indicate only city and country)

ADDRESS LAST RESIDENCE FIRST (number,street,city,state,country) Ind. Apt. # INCLUSIVE DATES (month & year)
FROM TO

(Guayaquil, Ecuador 10 May 1969 May 1971

(Lima, Peru) to Sept. 1971 Feb. 1974

об
▼ Vienna, Va (8151 Larkin La.) Feb. 1974

SECTION IV. CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS (Provide information for all children and dependents)

NAME RELATIONSHIP DATE & PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS

об (Kendra) Flores Daughter 3 March 1971 USA (8151 Larking La)
Washington, D.c. Vienna, Va.

06 (Zola Marie) Flores Daughter 15 March 1974 USA
Washington, D.C.

FORM
12-70 444e OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECTION V..
(1)
RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO EITHER (1) LIVE ABROAD,
(2) ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS OR (3) WORK FOR A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

NAME (Last-First-Middle) 2. RELATIONSHIP 3. DATE OF BIRTH 4. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
GUERRERO, Richard,об Nephew UK New Orleans, La

5. CITIZENSHIP (Country) 6. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES
USA Ansbach, Germany

7. EMPLOYED BY 8. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT 9. DATE OF LAST CONTACT
U.S. Army Periodic March 1974ONTACT

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle) 2-RELATIONSHIP 3. DATE OF BIRTH 4. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

2.  CITIZENSHIP (Country) 6. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

(2)
3.  EMPLOYED BY 8. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT 9. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

4.  NAME (Last-First-Middle) 2. RELATIONSHIP 3. DATE OF BIRTH 4.PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

5.  CITIZENSHIP (Country) 6. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

(3)
6.  EMPLOYED BY 8. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT 9. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

SECTION VI. PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

1.  HAVE YOU BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED, OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF LAW (Other than for YES (explain X NO
minor traffic violation) SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS below)

2.  SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS. HAVE THERE BEEN ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE YES (explain X NO
WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION. below)

3.  NAME OF YOUR PRESENT IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR (include Room Number and Extension) Mr. Nestor Sanchez
RM 3D30 X-7451 ny spain

SECTION VI۱۰ PERSONS TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY
1. NAME (Last-First-Middle) 2. RELATIONSHIP
Same as previous PHS.

3.  HOME ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, ZIP Code) 4. HOME TELEPHONE NUMBER

4.  BUSINESS ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, ZIP Code) INDICATE NAME OF FIRM 6. BUSINESS TELEPHONE NUMBER & EXT.
OR EMPLOYER. IF APPLICABLE

5.  IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, OTHER CLOSE RELATIVES (spouse, mother, father ...) MAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED. IF SUCH NOTIFICATION
IS NOT DESIRABLE BECAUSE OF HEALTH OR OTHER REASONS, PLEASE IDENTIFY THE PERSONS NOT TO BE NOTIFIED AND THE REASON.

SECTION VIII.、 ADDITIONAL REMARKS

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

SUPPLEMENTAL PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
1. NAME (First-middle-last)
Daniel (nmn) Flores
3.F MARRIED
06
NAME OF SPOUSE (First-middle(maiden) last)
Dorothy A. Moran Flores

PLACE OF MARRIAGE
Lima, Peru (0
2. MARITAL STATUS
SINGLE
MARRIED
OTHER

DATE OF MARRIAGE
18 November 1960

4.  RESIDENCE (Since date of last PHS, if overseas residence indicate only city & country)
SINCE (Date) NUMBER AND STREET CITY AND STATE
PRESENT August 1961 2828 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20008
FROM
Σ DATE TO DATE NUMBER AND STREET CITY AND STATE
DATE TO DATE
FROM 08 NUMBER AND STREET CITY AND STATE

5.  HAVE YOU BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED.SOR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF LAW (Other than for YES (Explain NO
minor traffic violation) SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS below) X

6.  SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST. PHS, HAVE THERE BEEN ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE YES (Explain NO
WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION below) X

7.  NAME OF YOUR PRESENT IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR P7176 EXT. 3054
Harry 1. Mahoney RM.
8.  ADDITIONAL REMARKS (Use reverse if necessary)
DATE
29 March 1967
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
FORM 444e (4)
4-61

SUPPLEMENTAL PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

1.  NAME (First-middle-last)
Daniel (nmn) Flores

3.JF MARRIED
NAME OF SPOUSE (First-middle(maiden)-last)
06 Dorothy A. Moran) Flores
PLACE OF MARRIAGE
Lima, Peru 10

2.  MARITAL STATUS
SINGLE
MARRIED
OTHER

DATE OF MARRIAGE
18 November 1960

3.  RESIDENCE (Since date of last PHS, if overseas residence indicate only city & country)
SINCE (Date) NUMBER AND STREET CITY AND STATE

PRESENT August 1961 08 2828 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20008

DATE TO DATE NUMBER AND STREET CITY AND STATE
FROM

DATE TO DATE NUMBER AND STREET CITY AND STATE
FROM

4.  HAVE YOU BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED, OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF LAW (Other than for YES (Explain NO
minor traffic violation) SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS below) X

5.  SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS, HAVE THERE BEEN ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE YES (Explain NO
WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION below) X

6.  NAME OF YOUR PRESENT IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR EXT.7176 RM.3054
Harry T. Mahoney

7.  ADDITIONAL REMARKS (Use reverse if necessary)

LETURN PHS AND ATTACHMENTS
10 HEADQUARTERS

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
29 March 1967

FORM 444e (4)
4-61
