14-00000

104-10173-10170 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

27 NOV 70
INSTRUCTIONS Use officer designation in the"TO" column. Number each comment to correspond with the number in the"TO" column
Draw a line across the sheet under Each officer should date and initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing
this comment. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.
FROM: RI/AN NUMBER: HKHA-04072
DOCUMENT DATE:

A
TO ROOM DATE OFFICER'S RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
NO
WH/REG BARTON
3
Ranh
Cant 120
H/mi
AS
12
17
12
R 1700
26R 1533

RIN
COMMENTS
(Note: If a copy of attachments are removed from the at-
tached document, note the location of the copy and or attach-
ment hereon. If this RECORD COPY is to be retained in
the files at the Desk, call the Central File Section for per-
manent loan)
3-4: Let's mallo a
addresses repeated five.
HPSON-1248
RIOS
SOTO PRIETO, LIONEL
GUILLERMO

FILE NUMBER
701 55332
RI/FI 1400L

SECRET

FIII 20-209258
127552

14-00000

ATK HKHA-A-L072
POOR QUALITY REPRODUCTION (201-055332)
UNAVOIDABLE' Field Hold File No. 30-256-35

DATE 27 November 1957
TO: Chief, MID
ATTN: FUDEX/ICD Cedrio B. Page
FROM: Chief of Station, Habana

SUBJECT: Communist Matters
Lionel Guillermo SOTO Prieto
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

1. When Subject was arrested on 24 September 1957, a number of scraps of paper containing incomplete notes were found in his possession. The following names were legible:
Barnardo GARCIA, Juventud Obrera Catolica, Vedado.
No previous record in Station files.
(Dr) Salvador HASSIP, Avenida 9 No. 802, Tel. 89-1388.
Files show Him to be a professor at the University of Habana and father of Salvador HASSIP Valdes who has a Icas record of Cosmot activities
Arquiñoreton, Calle 20 No. 272-2, Tel. 7-1988.

Files do not identify Arguiñoreton, the name probably refers to a local agricultural organisatica, cida.

Agusto CALZAT, Calle Caba 165, Apt. 12-bajos. No previous file record.
Cilberto , Calle Infanta 11).
Files list one Cilberto Lada comindst who was active in
1955 who received a Une to staty agronary in Maxico,

R. D.
Calle M. Gosse 16.

This parson may be
el Mes
alices, who 10

Koster Inteneterder, Calle A y 14, Regla.
No previous record in filca,

61-23A SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
I COPY 201-55332

14-00000

Spain SECRET
HXH-A-6072, Page 2
27 November 1957
Ot to VILCHES, Calle Estrella 209, Habana.

Files reflect that bo was a Communist sympathiser at th Dalamity of Habana during 1955 was draber of to Comittee for the Defense of Quatemala in 1954.
VIC, Calle E No. 205 7.Lines, Habana

Holendor of the youth coction of the Ort Party, baba An unevaluated report dated 16 1951 from airly raliable source stated that LESHICK is a Commnist sympathiser and a very good friend of Lional S010. In a rooms intervis in connection with his application for U. S. viss, LESICK add ttod krondge son but said the and hot share Sto's views.

Baldomero A. RIOS, Calle Lamstria 512, Tal. W-2965).

Puerto Boro's notes contained the aes Baldocare RIOs, and directly bansath it in parenthesis the name "Susand." RIOS VIS Moen student at the University of Habana/Ho but alatined to be anti-Communist.

Marquesa de TIETMA, tel. Fahil, Calle F No. 10. 17 719, Vodedo, Habana.

The Marquesa do TIERA is not identifiable from Station files. Her husband, the arcos de PIEDRA was a Spanish somarchist sho to balioved to have died in 1953.
Dr. Lake PATIN, Dafute Pasayo, Calle Harados Lopos 18.

Wo pertinent information in Piles.
PORTOTO PLLega, Pals. U-3109 and W-8291.

Wife of Monal S010. In 1955 she vas vice-treasurer of Meakso txapo, a color-front cultural organisatie
PIPICIS, Calle alle 102, 2nd floor de rifriend (pendaknon at Callo S) Frencisco 102, 2nd floor.
1956 مل FPICIS i les stadent at the Intrery of Badanga Forsturced to as die active in Juvented Socia

Alberto FJLSA, Calle Campanario 306, Tel. A-265.

Bo provicus record.
JOHSO, Tel. U-1896.
Ro io painter and was active in 1919 in Pro-Pasos Horezant in Caba.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET HXH-1-1072, Page 3
27 November 1957

Manole (no last name given), Tol. 70-4848 (Alicia Alonso Balle School).

Unidentified.
Santiago CURAS, Calle Lamparilla 65, Habana
Ho previous record.
Ren ANTLLAS, (Capote), Calla Jy 25, Apt. 21, Hadena.

Files show that in 1955 ba vas a student at the University of Rebana and President of the Student Federation (School of Led). At the same time bo ves knom as a leader of the Youth Group of the Urtodoxs Party.
Dr. Alejandro 0002, Clinica Kotsu, Calle Concepcion y 8th, Vibora, Habana.

No previous record.
Bicolor Publicidad Siboney, Calle 26 No. 100h, Ah Floor, Member of executive council of Puestro Herpo. USA
The following addresses are located outside of Cabas

L. A. Rossarch Daream 199 Broadway, New York City.
(Rats THH-1610, 28 May 1952) Esported to have called publication to Anibal ESCALANTE, PSP representative in Cuben Congress in 1952. Publication was described as anti-0,3. and supporting Communist 1100.

299 Rast 57th Street Brooklyn 3, New York
No record.
Karia Teresa CARCIA noter partes" p "cortos")
Pilica 205
Colcala Sta. Haria
Maxico, D. P.

Files show a Maria Teresa auCIA as momber in Hebena of National Council for Defense of Infancy in pocsaber 1952.
Andrea BERJILA -Ta noter "Energencia")
Morelia 9, Dep. 11
Haxioo, D. F.
Bo provicis file recard,

SECRET

14-00000
!
POOR QUALITY, REPRODUCTION
"UNAVOIDABLE"

SECRET HXH-1-6072, Page 5
27, Novexber 1957

3. There were numerous telephone munders with no indication to shou they belonged. AMBADGER traced the mindere, but only the following wre of persons with Communist connections. (Telephone unbers are not canalusive
A view of the custon in Cuba to sell the telephone and nucber to to anyone willing to pay the price. The buyer may have no other relationship to the previous aner of the phone.)
4-5-8741 Rosario JK de la Os
Callo Agulla Lou dajcs
esq. San Martin y San Rafool
Habena

She is the mother of Antonio sulez Jimanes, sho vas a friend of 2010's which they were both studenta at the University of Habang. Ho to now in Santa Clare, Cuba,
4-5-6752 Horinio Maria FJTS Dasa
and Herminio Horia 3 Rojo
Calle Sitios 229, cat. Loalted y Companario

Rojo is the father of SOTO's former wife, Gloria Heria FUENTES Dasa.
Herminio Maria FUENTES Dase is ber brother.
B-3667 Dr. José A. SORTS Linares, H. D.
Marianpo, Habena.
8 No provicus rooord.
7-3136 Salomon L. Viroro, calle no. 302, E. a 15,
Vedado, Habens

Possibly identical with a former consul of the Dutch Consulate in Habama. He is travelling outside of Cuba at prosont bat will return in month or two.
1-6857 Javiortor
Fluss
Calle/0ant. 273
Vibora, Babana,
He is the fether of Amalia IMSS Peres (3-953)

Onder Leccatica by SD )192( ه مده knowing Licnal 5010.
X-173 Shorvin-Milites Cospary of Cuba
Callo FE. 212, cat. Lipon Habana Central y 12, Reparto Eatista,
It is not known whos 5000 might be calling theres however, Shavin-billion has had ledor trouble with the Communists in the past.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET -A-L072, P
27 Hober 19ה

8070 was sentenced to ads year's Leprisonmaal on ) November 1957. He is confined at Principe Prison, but should te transferred, to th pricon on the Zelo of Pines soon.

Distributions
4. Verhington
2-Files
810/5m
25 November 1957 Shelly L. Overstreet
Shelby L. Overstroot

SECRET
201-55332

14-00000

INSTRUCTIONS Use officer design
Draw a line across the sheet under
This Routing and Record sheet shoulk
FROM: RI/AN

SECRET
(WHEN FILLEO IN)
TING AND RECORD SHEET
"TO" column. Number oach comment to cor.vspond with the number in the "TO" column.
mment. Fach officer should date and initial (check mark insufficient before further routing.
removed from the attached 'RECORD 'document
DOCUMENT NUMBER HKHA-04002
DOCUMENT DATE

OFFICER'S
1.
2. TO ROOM DATE
NO.
WH/REG BARTON
3
5.
Carit/F/
Carib/ed
WH/FI RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
B
COMMENTS
NOTE: It a copy of attachments are removed from the at
tached document, note the location of the copy and/or attach
ment hereon. It this RECORD COPY is to be retained in
the files at the Desk, call the Central File Soction for per
manent loan.
5 NO COPY ПЕТАMIER - Chion
195
12 lice
21 NOV 195 cipy made for JMKEEL file
10. REFERRED
July

12-1Ds net w/seo's fordel 201 FILE OPENED ON THE
BASIS OF THIS DOCUMENT
FILE TITLE LESVIC
27 ΝΟΥ 1807
1. novem ENCLOSURE
12 RI/A 4 NOV 1957
13.
RITY DATE PROCESSED FILE NUMBER
Carite 701 219259
14:
RI/FI 1400L ABSTRACI
0601
FORM NO 610a 31Oct 57 INDEX
1 SEP. 56 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET

14-00000

VIA: ATP
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)
TO : Chief, WHD-
FROM : Act Chief of Station, Habana
SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational/JKEEL
SPECIFIC- Subject of Reference.
Reference: DIR 38898, 8 October 1957
Action Required: None, information only.
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO-1002
(201- )
Local File No. 27-22-10
DATE: 31 October 1957
SAR

1. In accordance with reforence, there follow details of Subject's case. Attachment A is a memorandum furnished to the local COACID which reviewed the derogatory information in Station files on Subject. Attachment Bis a paraphrased copy of the ODACID cable to Washington recommending a favorable decision in his non-immigrant visa case.
2. By virtue of Subject's youth, his record to date, and his promising future, he was listed as a JMKEEL target in June 1957. Contact was established with him in about August 1957 as a consequence of his non-immigrant visa application, and about six meetings have been held with him since that time, ostensibly for the purpose of fully clarifying his visa status. When and if Subject obtains his visa, PRQ Part I will be forwarded according to established JJIKEEL procedure.
3. For Headquarters information, the fabricated information mentioned in paragraph 2B of Attachment A is that reported in HKH-954, 5 January 1955, and HKH-943, 28 December 1954. AMPUTLE: admitted to Humphrey I. EBERTEIN on 26 August 1957 that this information was fabricated.
Attachments: U/S/C Andrew F. Merton
harew. Merton.
A-Memo, Subject: (Subject of Reference) i pages in triplicate U/S/C
DODACID Cable No. 200, 1 page in triplicate, dated 2 October 1957 U/S/C
Distribution:
3- Washington w/attachs. U/S/C
2-Files w/attachs.
25 October 1957
AFV/mem

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
FOEIR WA 201-709258
51-28 A
RI COPY

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
USE ONLY CLASSIFICATION

SUBJECT: (Ophonal) ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
FROM: Sicatt.A

RIAN KHA 4002
DATE
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICERS COMMENTS (Number, each comment to show from whom
building) RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS to whom Drowa bine across column after each comment.)

WH 046 Berton
12 Nov
957
br3
3.
Carib/71
Caub/Cuta/R Meer

POUCH MATERIAL
SEPARATE COVER
ENCLOSURE
EXPEDITE
13
144
15.

POEM
05:2001
610 UNCLASSIFIED
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL
: INTERNAL 201-769258
PREVIOUS USE ONLY ABSTRACT
EDITIONS UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000

Separate Cover_Attachment-to-H-A-1002, 31-October-1957
SECRET SECRET

14-00000

SECRET Separate Cowr Attachment to HIH-ALCO?
31 October 1957
:
Visa Section 29 August 1957.
Attache
Mix Edgardo LESXICA Merendes

The following information is furn aned as of interest to you in determining Sabesti security statuas
1. A. A report from an official source laseribed as reliable, dated 28 December 1954 and evaluated as easily thus, sisted that groupe from the Ortodoxe party leduject contedly collaterated with the Partido Socialista raviar in the planning of the protest espaign against the Cuban Government's plan id : a Cuba canal. The report went on to state that on Từ Der 1954 Cuban press published on article concerning Subject in the name of the national executive committes of the Crioca leta, to all youth organisations, including th rented stai taluta, bar Comunis youth organisation) and other organbod cantars of asia coinion to attend a zeeting at retir station 0.0.0.0, on 15 December 1954 in order to join in the protest. Approximate roerted to have awwared the cali, of how 15 480 desertool de Nas as Comaisista and the. remainder an Ortodoxne many of whom had bad close as with the Communists in the post.
B. Several subsequent investications felles to contre that there was any colaboration between the PSP other opettich groups in the protest against the Canal Via Cuba. All indications was that the STOVER tours to attack the Government lecitinate opposition groupe Baised this and thus found themselves focused of core the vote the Cosmin روایا 4 favorite tresto of the Gorettisent. a version of the incident was that only one Communist, Haul Asiawed up at its reting and was promptis naked by subject to lerve, vriendi

2. A Another report fron the roo westionarayaנדסה12 בכ dated 5 Jammy 1955 and ovawatea e pesisir true, stated nata prot between certair Ortodeto Lao and the SP batean concluded for the purpose of ciebatting the ten Facts 100 ct. Mario RIVA DULLA, Dots Ortodonc south isaders, Prweteco Cake, Criosaxo, Jose FONEVARRIA, president, مثلمعة Fic, Catholic fost per and 310 follower, and Carlos Rafael Rock and reperie ORTEGA Suaras, roch Comranista, ware said to ove attered me of the scotings leading to to this act. Anti-Reviste propaganis issued by the fronte Dryd Or to date Coronista vos said to have bestond on ice arsen of an Crtodoxe leader from Oriente Previnos valeed by iגס א ; aury 1954.
open file-10-

SECRET
SECRET
201-204258

14-00000
:
!

SECRET
SECRET Page t

05 August 1957, a pouree within sin, sidered usuall reliable, har quarted constaing to reporta fria official sources Ortodan-Comodel callehoration and spesifially ouncercing the pest with the Commciato Lovaising maject and others mentioned in pore gropa 4 above, said that these reports wre faire (passte) and had boa fairicated to denigrate to live and the opporeato of the BATISTA resins. Sabbet dariad that the Ortopics car pested with the Cusunista. He alained that he has never set Corles Rafael ROMIOwn, for that natter, na my of Ito top Cosmolot Leaders acrept lacro Fida, who was orca patate out من قلة ما Herice 010y
3ο Α. Δα παναlusted report dated 16 July 1951 free a course stoso raliability was described a fair alated that Has LESNICK 18 A Comsalas arapathizer and a very good friend of Lionel 100, editor of Vargadis Cubang and Commaist is lender 's the Iniversity of Habana, report acnearned LABEL: cnidiowy for the office of Secretary el Avec Lid Ort,

B. Subject, when asked an asked if no kisar Llobal 3010, said that a his but that he did not share his views. It is noted that the same roport mautiozed that It res very doubtflifarad Ortodon was going to send a dalgation to the Youth Congress (Cotsanias) in Bela, a statement hard to resonatio with the presses of a Commatot cyapathiser as a atidave for Sesrotary Jeneral of that organisation.
4. An artiale in Rey of 17 September 1952 reported a protect against a 3D raid on the Cans de la Cultura. Included in the list of paracaa siming the protest vere names of wazy preminent Commanisto svall an that of Sabjos
میں
B. Sabjost admitted signing this protest and stated for the record that be signed in pod feith as an anti-frenates and not s Consmatos cympathisar.
5. A natale la Derya Libre of 12 March 1956 reported declaration of the Cuban Conlites for Guatemala against the aggression against the country. Dabjoot's neas wας 1 • listed among the sigbare of the docieration as a boaber of the Commlitco.

Babfoot stated that be signed the declaration in the sincare belief that Guatemala was a democratis country and that dressratio forces had to defend that country against forces which would asintain it in economis sabjcation and political bookovardossa. He said that moiy non-Communiste of 1 like baliaf aloo oigned the declaration. Ba added that the ARSKAZ want behind the Iron Curtain it became alo that Cuatemala really bad down in danger of boosing a Coasemias beachhead.
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
GEOMET

Pago

6. A. An article in Hox of 28 Jamary 1953 reported that Subject was a member for the Juventud Ortodoss of the presidium of the Congreso Hart Lano por los Derechos de la Juventud and published a photograph sharing Subject at the spaziers" tablet Another artiolo in Roy of 3 March 1953 reported that Subject and several other youth leaders appeared at Hoy offices with a declaration signed by the Consejo Permanente of the Congreso Martiam. The Congreso was doodribed as Corantetedozinated by the writer of the newer andum to the Visa Section dated 9 November 1955.

B. Subject described the Congreso as an opposition maneuver agalast the Government in which many Cuban youth institutions participated, including the Comaninists. He said that he, himmelf, participated in the Congreso atriatly as a representative of the Juventud Ortodoxo in opposition to the Government din no sense as a collaborator or ayapathiser with the Comaririste. Regarding the visit to By offices, Sanfest said that the group in question visited many newspaper offices, not just that of Hoy.
7. Subject prefaced his remarks by stating that he had recognised tha Communist danger as early as 1950. He brought several documente purporting to show his attacks on Corsunisa. The consente are attached, and pertinant extracts therefrom are set forth below in translation. Subject requested that the documents be returned when need fre them no longer existed.

A. Brests from "El Pensamiento Politico e Ideologico De La Juventud Cubana", dated 1 July 1950, signed by Max LESNICK Nenendes, Ciro PUNARTEA Diss, Oscar CRUZ Mir, Salvador LEW, Omar DRGES, Jose SALAZAR and Joaquin SALOMON

(1) (page 13, criticising DATISTA's collaboration with the Communists) "Around the middle of 1937, the Communist Party, alleging as a public pretext that BATISTA has ceased to be the center of the most reactionary feroes not only is returning to legality but also is lending to the regtes in power all ite political beeking and is mobilining the working masses in bi support
(2) (pageli, more criticism of BATISTA and his collaboration with the Communists) "The Arst general elections held following the promulgation of the new Constitution, to which BATISTA went as presidential candidate of the old political foross and of the Communist Party, served only to civilise' in its exterior asperts the pover which that ban had been exercising over the country for more than five years.....
:
*AN EXAMINATION OF THE PHOTOGRAPH DOES NOT SHOW SUBJECT.
THE HOVI SAMEN ATTENDER KAS DENIED AS FALSE BY SUBJECT.
NTTAST

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET pago h

(3) (page 15, analysing Communist Party tantins of the time) "The Jasminnist Party, valet a short thes before under the German-Russian post nad wale had an estive ormpaign for Cuban mostrality is the face of a war of teperialism, but which latar, Allowing the last attack on Busan, vas defonding the most active belligerenaj of Onba in the struggle t daloed the Arts, naverted itself into the strongest proposat of national unity....
(4) (page 3), sarising political sentiments), "Those domparato convictiong mean that two are radically opposed to the wteliteriangle that is the most outstanding characteriatio of the regime imposed by Stalin in Russia.

(5) (para 35, clarifying his anti-inorialist stand), On the other hand it is fitting to clarify that we shall no adjust the acti-imperialistis stand of the Cuban revolut tonary Lovement to suit the foreign policy of any country, as in the Banner of prosedure of the Communist Parties closely linked 20 Russia and its current government.
B. A copy of an undated, wildentified pompaper elipping reported an art of the Divented Ortodons in honor of allo datonio KALLA, An retumsal to Comunistattoopt to identify KLA es a Cosminist, and specifically in reply to an artials by Jam MARINELLO entitled FAIRLLA Ra Musetre. A pleure of Babject speaking at this act is attached.

C. An oxtract from the article Cuba Frente Al Cenal by Sanfoot, publtabod to ahmin of 15 January 1955, page 48, in which he arsuses the Doverment of being ommalas The arbitrary violation of Daiversity autonomy, tim repeated coaction of the Jadloial Power, the abotion of the Tribesal is Quenths and other stellar esto, characterised the cast of the Raclete in the first shree years of its goverment.
Andrew F. Therton
Andrew F. Merton
Distribution:
1- Visa Section:
2- Files
29 August 1957
AFH//mfm
ISEGRET 201-208258

14-00000

SECRET
ATTACHMENT B
Separate Cover Attachment to HKM-A-L002
31 October 1957
3 COPY

ODACID Cable WIRON 200, 2 October 1957

1. Subject is Max LESNICK y Menendez, non-immigrant visa applicant born 8 September 1930 in Vueltas, Las Villas, Cuba. Profession, salesman. President of Juventud Ortodoxa and Orthodoxo party leader in opposition to BATISTA. He is currently in hiding from police until the heat is off. In 1954, he signed the Comite Cubano declaration in favor of Guatemala. He was referred to as a Communist sympathizer through collaboration between Ortodoxos and Communists and friendship well- known Cuban Communists possibly embracing Section 212 (a) (27) and (28).
2. Security checks show no indications of collaboration with Communists. Latter at times tried to get on the bandwagon of all opposition groups including the Ortodoxo. Specific information from. Cuban Government sources regarding Ortodoxo-Communist pacts were later, admitted to the local CAS as fabrications. LESNICK states that he signed the Pro-Guateriala declaration against big foreign business domination of Latin American affairs as did many other Cubans. He states that he is only acquainted with student Communist leaders at the University of Habana. He denies that he collaborated with the Communists during the past or present and brings published articles dating back to 1950 which indicate his anti-Communist stand. His name appears in the Soundex for questioning.
The local CAS is especially interested in the case. A favorable decision is recommended by the visa officers.
LESNICK plans attend Inter-American Press Association meeting to be held 12 October in Washington, entering New York 12 October at 1:35 p.m. via Cubana airline.
SECRET

14-00000

TO: The Secretary of State
Attentions Mr. B. Tomlin Bailey
Director, Office of Security
FROM Deputy Director, Plans
SUBJECT: LESNICK Y MENENDEZ, Max 201209258

1. Reference is made to your SY memorandum 10/765, dated 7 October 1957, subject as above, whose name you desired checked against the files of this office. The files contain information concerning Max LESNICK which has been already disseminatei to the Dopartrent of State as indicated belowi
a. CSDB 18971 dated 8 April 1954, subjects Character Assassination of Dr. Ramiro ARANGO Alainas.

b. CS 53861 dated 17 March 1955, subjects Communist Influence in the FEU Habana University
c. C3.77501 dated 7 November 1955, subjects Status of the Political Opposition.

d. CS 87280 dated 14 March 1956, subjects Activities and Plans of Cuben Revolutionaries.

e. CS 3,318,636 dated 11 June 1957, subjecti Political Opinions of Rafael GARCIA Barcena, Opposition Lester.
2. In addition, you are referred to the following Department of State despatches:
a. Despatch 1486, dated 22 June 1949, from Habana, Cuba, subject: Proposed Cuban National Congress for Peace an! Democracy.

AN
1-Enci COMETRI COPY 201-2.09258
5282

14-00000

(CONFIDENTIAL
b. Despatch 100, dated 23 July 1954, from Habana, Cuba, subjects Organized Ldividuals in Cuba that Lentified Themselves with Arbens Administration.

o. Despatch 1232, dated 28 January 1952, from Habana, Cuba, subjects New National Executive Committee of Partido Del Pueblo Cubano Ortodoxo

CSCI-3747019.
Encl. 1 name check
RI/CE: AJL/DW/1C

2
| CONFIDENTIAL
COPY
201-109058
100-2-12

14-00000

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1951 0-000776
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF SECURITY
REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PLANS (CIA)
From:
1304 TELEPHONI

Date 1100508
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PLANS (CIA) 10/4/57

I. NAME ( married woman include maiden name) DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH.
Max LESNICK Y MENENDEZ Sept. 8, 1930 Vueltas, Las Villas,
Cuba

ALIASES AND NICKNAMES SEX MARITAL STATUS CITIZENSHIP
M MARRIED SEX MARITAL STATUS
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION AND NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER
Cuba. President Juventud Ortodoxn, and
Ortodoxo Party loaior..
ADDITIONAL IDENTIFYING-DATA:

DIVISION OR AGENCY. CONTROL THIS REQUEST PLACED WITH THE DAISION OF SECURITY BY:
VISA OFFICE Securi Branch. REASON FOR REQUEST, OR TYPE OF PROGRAM
DATE
10/1/57 RBoatianelloma
Branch
II RESULTS OF THIS REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION:
VISA - Security Case
URGENT To attend inter-American press association, October 12, 1957
Washington, D.C., via New York.
NAME OR REQUESTING OFFICER

NO RECORD SECURITY INFORMATION ATTACHED
NO DEROGATORY INFORMATION OTHER (Uso reverse ande for reporting)
III FOR USE OF DIVISION OF SECURITY:
CHECKED BY: ANALYS D. IV.
100 22.00 1757
DATE
REELWOR Visa OFFICE
SECURITY FAC
DERT, OF STATE
V000765022
RI COPY
(Date)
Encl-1

14-00000

5 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ROUTING
DATE 456 SE/MK/BM
5 OCT 1957 SECRET 1
TO • DIRECTOR
FROM HAVANA REC'D CABLE SECT.
ACTION WH 5 ROUTINE
INFO CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS, FRI 2, S/C 2
IN 19889
DIR

TO DIR INFO CITE HAVA 037
REF: A DIR 38898 (OUT 98169)*
:
В. НКНА 3653
SUBJ PROMINENT ORTHODOX YOUTH LEADER, JMREEL CONTACT
(SEE REF B) PAST TWO MONTHS. FURNISHED DOC INFO PROVE ANTI
COMMIE STAND. STATION REVIEWED DEROG INFO PER ODACID CABLE
200, CLEARED SATISFACTION CONSULAR OFFICER HANDLING CASE.
WILL POUCH DETAILS. URGE ODACID EXPEDITE FAVORABLE DECISION
AND CLEARANCE INS IDLEWILD.

END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT:* REQUESTED CLARIFICATION STATIONS INTEREST ISSUANCE VISA TO MAX LESNICK REPORTED IN ODACID CABLE NO. 2002 ОСТ.
ABSTRACT

2 SECRET CATE 80ct 57
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 10600 015540000
InaTRuCTIona: Once designat on should NOT be uned in the TO cotons
thie Roung and Record sheet should 403 se returned to Registry
FROM: RI-AN 146297

TO Rocu DATE Officer RECEIVEN FORWA
1 2. Pisen C
1.5541
3. Cuba/R 5533.6
Cuba/Ro 5598
71
E-8
T
HK-015444
20 AUG 1957
CoraENTS
HOTE: I a copy et attachments are revered from the at-
tached document, mete the inearion of the copy and or atta
at horeas. I thi RECORD COPT to to rotalned in
the file the Desk, call the Central File Section for per-
S
Copv DETACMED Chiond
3:06
ALB
FILE HUMBER
A:8 109-5 109
ENCLOSURE.

ASTRACE DATE
1.
CA
IMOUS