104-10222-10038
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REVERED IT CIA HEARNARTERS
HOUSE SELECT COORITEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMEBERS

SECRET

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
BAGLEY, Tennent H. "PETE"

INCLUSIVE DATES: 29 A48 1949 - 21 June 1972
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: Office of Personnel
ROOM: 5513

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE
RICEIVED

DATE
RETURNED
REVIERED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RECTED FROM THIS FILE

BAGLEY
TENNENT H

Reiseved 3 mar

-4
56043 D

SECRET
(dt)

1. SERIAL NUMBER
056042 ✓

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
2 MAME (Last Middle)
BAGLEY, TENNENT H.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
RETIREMENT
4. PUNDS
AQLA

• EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH DAY TEAS

CIAR INVOLUNTARY + 06 30 172
from FOR Since
στον

VTO
100

XX 0100

PNENTAL AMALYSIS HO.
CHAROFANE
2136-1187
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
3. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Lompleted by Office of
PL 85-643 Sec 235 (4)
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIONATIONS.
DDP/EUR DIVISION
FOREIGN FIELD
BENELUX AREA
BRUSSELS STATION
11. POSITION TITLE
CHIEF OF STATION
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. I.R. etx.)
GS
18. REMARKS
1 cc PAYROLL

(16)
13. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136,05
BRUSSELS, BELGIUM
12 POSITION NUMBER
0296

10. GRADE AND STEP
16 8 6
DATE PREPARED
11 JUNE 72

12 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
D
17. SALARY OR RATE
88888 33634-
34625

Fast Rith
JPS

HOSTING BIRICIAS
18A. SIONATURE TOVESTING
DATE SIGNED
WILLIAM C. COOLEY C/E/PERS 6/15)
ACTION 20MPLOY. 21
C00៛
45 10

10 NIE EXPIRES
MO.
04.
3S VET PREFERE
1301
11.
COSM
-
OFFICE (09146
NUMEPIC
29 SPECIAL
#EFERENCE
6/15/72

18B SIGNATURE OF CAKEER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
Ly

SPACE BILOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
72. STATION
CODE
ALPHARRTIC
23 INTEGREL
COOF
30
1-30
1-0168
-FICA

-MORE
TIENT DATA
31. SEPARATION
DATA COGE
Cop
35 SERY (CAP DAI
0.

DA
1-317
12-10 17.

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
5-100 すたAS HOKE
1-80 MAK 1
24 25 זנח CATE OF BU
ליטא

MQ DA
1!
11125
3

3R CANCELLATION DATA
DA
٢٢٢٤
O, GU,000,0.
17 LONG COMP. BATE
MD.
DA
18.
42. LEAVE CAT.
(008
38 CAREER CATEGO27
(A/BS
Ple/TEMP
43
37
cope
YE.
76 DATE OF GRADE
MO.
DA.
EOD DATA

FEGLI REALTH INSURANCE
1-816
REG/OPT

FORM EXECUTtal coor
٢٤٤-١

NOPREMATIONS
HEALTH INS, cons

44
PORK BERCUTED
1-15
27
ม
DATE SIGNED
6/16
DATE OF LEI
04

12
414
14.50
43 SOCIAL SECURITY BO
STATE PAR DATA
COOS NO TAR STATE CODE
w

ENCE IS PAS
-SR JEUTE THAN PEARLY
4S POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
L

1152

USP PRE MUS EDITION
مام
1-80
SOAPPROVAL
Hany B. Fishes
SECRET

DATE APPROVED
28 Jume 72
GROUP 1

$ 8 JUN 1972

Air. Tennent H. Bagiey
2721 Glenwick PlaCO
LaJolla, California 92037

Dear Petes

As you reach the end of your active career
of Government service, I want to join your friende
and colleagues in wishing you continued succoss
and satisfaction in your retiremeat.

You have been privileged to face the challonge
of important responsibilities during your more than
twenty-five years of service to your country. The,
success with which you have met this challenge should
be a source of lasting pride to you.

May I'sztend to you, personally and officially,
my sincere appreciation for the important work you
have done and iny warmest hopes that you will find
full enjoyment to the years ahead.

Distribution:
O-Addressee
1-DDCI

Sincerely,

Richard Hol
IS! TON
Richard Helms
Director

1.- ER
1 D/Pers
1- OPF
1 RCB Soft File
1
ROB Reader

:
Originator:
/s/Harry L. Ficher
26 JUN 1972

Director of Personnel

OP/RAD/ROB/PJSeidel:jat/3257 (21 June 1972)

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Retirement. - Tennent H. Bagley

30 June 1972

1. The retirement of Subject, effected as a result of a
memorandum from the Head of his Career Service stating that
he is surplus to the needs of the Service and that his retirement
will be recommended to the Director under the provisions of the
CIA Retirement and Disability System pertaining to involuntary
retirement, in no way implies an adverse action. Subject signed
an application for retirement of his own volition in order to
qualify for an immediate retirement annuity. The liberalized
criteria for such separations waz established by the Agency to
parallel similar actions under the Civil Service Retirement
System in accordance with FPM Letter No. 831-23, dated
10 December 1969.
:
2. Any inquiry received concerning the nature of the
separation of Subject from the Agency should be confirmed simply
as a retirement.

Ruevillige
Ronald Gage
Chief
Retirement Affairs Division

AOMNISTRATIVE
INTERNAL US ONLY

SECRET
12 MAY 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Tennent H. Bagley

SUBJECT
: Involuntary Retirement Under the CIA Retirement
and Disability System

1. This will confirm a previous discussion with you concerning the
problem of a surplus in your career service of on-duty strength in relation
to new reduced ceiling and the consequent need to effect a reduction in personnel.
At that time you Indicated your willingness to assist your career service in
reaching its roduced personnel.ceiling by accepting involuntary retirement.

2. Accordingly, and in order to establish the necessary conditions for
involuntary retirement under CIARDS, I have determined that you are surplus
to the needs of your career service and will recommend your retirement to
the Director, effective 30 June 1972.

3. I urge you to contact the Retirement Affairs Division, Office of
Personnel, where every effort will be made to provide whatever information
and assistance you may need in preparing for your proposed retirement.

Crid Meyen Yoos
Thomas H. Karumessines
Deputy Director for Plans

NOTED:
1972
19 June

Tennent Dupey
Employee Signature

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Ехисити Registry

7-2506
CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
Request for Retirement

1. Name of Applicants Tennent H. Dagley
DOBI 11 November 1925
Crade: CS-16.
Position: Chief of Stailon, Brussels
Office/Division:
European Division
Caroor Service Clandestine Service

II. Date Requested for Retirement: 30 June 1972 (Involuntary)
Age at that Dato: 46
Years of Creditable Service 25
Years of Agency Service 21
Years of Qualifying Service 13

III. Applicant's Career Cervice
Recommends s X Approval
Reasons for recommending disapproval

IV. Retirement Board
Recommende X Approval
Disapproval
-
5
-
Disapproval
Reasons for recomiending disapproval

V. Director of Personnel
Recommends 1 X Approval
Dinapproval
Reasons for recommending disapproval

;
/s/Harry.P. Fistor.
Director of Perooncel
:

VI. Action by Director of Contzal Intelligence
Director of Central Intelligenco
:

Approved
2.
JUN 1972
Dato

Disapproved

Date
CONTILERTHAL

EYES G

5 May 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, CSCS Board
SUBJECT
Recommendation for Promotion to GS-17 -
Mr. Tennent H. Bagley

1. It is recommended that Mr. Tennent H. Bagley be pro-
moted to GS-17. He has been in grade as GS-16 since June 1965
and has served as COS in Brussels since August 1967. His
previous assignment was as Deputy Chief, SB Division.

2. The reasons for this promotion are amply covered in my
fitness report of this same date. I have just returned from an
extensive trip through the European area, during which I had a
chance to see and talk with a very large number of officers
under both official and non-official cover. Pete Bagley is one
of two whom I am recommending for promotion as a result. He is
one of our very finest station chiefs, possessed of imagination,
intellect and ability personally to handle operations which very
few of his colleagues can match. He is one of those on whom
the future of the Organization is going to depend, and I believe
that the promotion is more than justified.

/8/
John L. Hart
Chief
European Division

13 August 1970

Acting Chief, EUR Division, confirmed this nomination for the
Fall 1970 Review.

Ly
Robert W. Sheay
Secretary, Clandestine Service
Career Service Bd

Not Promoted by
CSCS Bed
Дер 70:

SECRET

DATE PREPARED
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBER
056013
2 NAME -Middle)
BAGLEY, TENNENT Η

3 NATURE COP PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT 1

6. FUNDS
V TO V
V TO CP
TOY
XX 0100

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
монти
ог
DAY
27 67
7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
NO CHARGEABLE
8136 1187
10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
10 AU: 67

S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR
8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Lompleted by Office of
Personnel)
A
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/EUR
FOREIGN FIELD
NORTHERN REGION
BRUSSELS STATION

11 POSITION TITLE
ATTACHE
CHIEF OF STATION
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB. etc.)
FSR
GS

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERES
0136.05
BRUSSELS, BELGIUM

12 POSITION NUMBER
0.296

16 GRADE AND STEP
03 2
16 3
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
D

17 SALARY OR RATE
16,391
$ 21,415

D
18. REMARKS

FROM DDP/SB #0002

SB CONCURS PER Efebaren (hum 8-10.67)

* Wash, D.C.

DCI, Approved 11 Jan 61
18A. SIGNATURE OF PEQUES HANG OTTICIAL
WILFORD C. TAYLOR, C/E/PERS

19. ACTION 20 FAPIGY 21
CODE
COSE

114/67
18B SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE AXPRCLING OFFICER
Biruthaay

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
OFFICE CODING
NUMEDIC
ALPHABETIC

22. STATION
LODE
37 10 44.550 EUR 16543
28 NTE EXPIRES
MO
23

29 SPECIAL
REFERENCE
30

DA.
YE
1-18
3-FIKA

S-MONE
RETIREMENT DATA
CODE
35 VET PREFERENCE
COCE

1-37
2-15 PT
36 57 COMP DATE
-COM
وم
37 LONG. COMP, DATE
DA

MO
41
COCE
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
10-OPUS SERVICE

1-30 IN SERVICE
42 LEAVE CAT
100)

43
1-

24 25 תנח CATE OF BI
1001
MO
DA

22 CORRECTION, CANCELLATION DATA
TYPE
Ant),
DA
26
DATE SIGNED
f/16/67

DATE OF GRADE
27.

DATE OF LEI
LA

ya
MO
GA

33 SECURITY
REQ NO

24 SEX
EOD DATA
FEGLI REALTHCAME
40 SOCIAL SECURITY #O
HEALTH INS COGE

SEER CATEGORY
39
100%
CODE
٢٤٤-١
FEDERAL FAX DATA
14
COOD
NO. PAR EXEMPTIONS
1020 ELECUTED
1-115

2-C
STATE TAX DATA
COOE MIO TAXI STATE Come
SEGEMP

JOYCE MORE Iran I TEARSI
45 POSITHON CONTROL CERTIFICATION
Pion! SB:
8-18-61

65P ASPROVAL
O 1152 USE FREY:CUS FOIT.ON
anw B.14-Boul
P

SECRET
DATE APPROVED
14)
GROUP

1. NAME (Lost, First, widdle)
BAGLEY, Tennent H.

4. OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH (or overseas station and
existing cover if lateral assignment)
DDP/SB

7. PROPOSED STATION
Brussels
8. TYPE OF COVER AT NEW STATION
Integree
18. COMMENTS
SECRET
2. DATE OF BIRTH
Nov. 11 1925
GRADE
GS-16

4. EMPLOYEE EXTENSION
7438
5. PRESENT POSITION
DC/SB

6. PROPOSED POSITION (Title. Number. Grade)
соя
0296

10. ESTIMATED DATE OF
DEPARTURE
11. NO. OF DEPENDENTS TO
ACCOMPANY
four
25 Aug 67

89's attached to OMS copies 259 a forwarded direct. Subject on
TDY standby until November 1967. Request evaluation for above PCS.

13. DATE OF REQUEST
28 July 1967
14SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL 15. ROOM NUMBER AND BUILDING 16. EXTENSION
Marge Grostephan
4B-01
Hqs.
6913
Marge Nitth

17. OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES DISPOSITION

10. OFFICE OF SECURITY DISPOSITION

19. OVERSEAS CANDIDATE REVIEW PANEL DISPOSITION
QUALIFIED FOR FOOD ASSIGNMENT OVERSEAS

767
+

Chatrzan, Overseas Candidata Review Panel

FORM 259z
1.65

EDITIONS
REQUEST FOR PCS OVERSEAS EVALUATION

SECRET
(4)

14-00000

SECRET
19 JAN 1967

DPA
CD.P

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

THROUGH : Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT : Appointment of Mr. Tennent H./Bagley
as Chief of Station, Brussels, Belgium

1. The appointment of Mr. Tennent H. Bagley as Chief of
Station, Brussels, Belgium, effective on or about 15 June
1967, is recommended. Mr. Bagley would replace Mr. William
D. O'Ryan.

2. Mr. Bagley has been an employee of the Agency since
July 1950, and is presently assigned as an Operations Officer,
Deputy Chief, Soviet Bloc Division, GS-16. A blographic
profile, including information regarding his Agency experience
and training, is attached.

1 Attachment
Rolfe Kingsley
Chief
European Division

Biographic Profile (Parts 1 & 2)
APPROVAL RECOMMENDED:
Host
Deputy Director for Plans
Date
256-

The recommendation in paragraph 1 is APPROVED:

Director of Central intelligence

SECRET
DATE
27 JAN 367

CACOPI
Eac
sechscs.calize

14-00000

3 October 1966
NEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT:
Mr. Robert W. Sheay
Secretary
Clandestine Services
Career Service Board

Mr. Tennent H. Bagley
Promotion to GS-17
:

1. Mr. Bagley was promoted to GS-16 on 6 June 1965.
At that time he was Chief, CI Group, SR Division. On
1 September 1965 he was appointed Deputy Division Chief,
SR Division. As his fitness 'reports attest, his perform-
ance in that position was outstanding and when in May 1966
the Soviet Bloc Division was created he was named Deputy
Division Chief of the new Division.

2. Thore is little that need be added to previous
fitness reports in my evaluation of Mr. Bagley's current
performance. It continues to be that of a dedicated and
gifted officer whose energies and extensive substantive
knowledge make a vital contribution to one of the top
priority programs of the Clandestine Services. Much more
important, in considering Mr. Bagley for promotion to the
next level of the supergrades, is his potential for addi-
tional growth and responsibility. He would be capable now
of taking charge of a field station, particularly one with
special opportunities for work against the Soviet Bloc and
the Chinese targets. With time (he is forty-one) he will
bé capable of assuming the senior position in any division
or staff in the CS. He is clearly one of the outstanding
officers in our service.

Rail Ell
David E. Murphy
Chief, Soviet Bloc Division

Pet Approud by
ases Boa

SECRET
CROUP 1
موا

1.

D

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
Muddle)

BAGLEY, TENNENT H.

I SERIAL NU
056043-

3 NATURE OF MAN ACTION
REASSIGNMENT
4 FUNDS
AGD

9. ORGANIZATICANG DESKALATIONS
DDP SE DIVISION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF
+
OLA
VTO
VTOO

DATE FARFAREO
27 December 1966

SPFECTIVE DATE REGIUESTED
MONTH DAY YEAR

121 166
Η ΡΙΝΑΝΓIAL ANALYSIS
NO CHARGEAME
7134 0573 0000
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR

LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Permanel)

WASHINGTON D.C.
12 POSITION NUMBER
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

(SG) 0002
11 POSITION TITLE
POL OFFICER 2ND SEC

OPS OFFICER D DIV-CH
14. CLASSIFICACY 110 1.8.4.)
FSS
GS
15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01
10 GRADE AND STEP
01 1
16 2
17. SALARY OR RATE

$ 15,841
20,745

18. REMARKS

IBA SIGNARLOKAL
E.COM
DATE SIGNED
158 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
PATE SIGNED
/SR/TERS 12/27/66

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
MATION 122 act
(021
1500

CODE
21

DATE OF GIN

40
CODE
3038 1814056 15013
15-ме

22 STATION

33 SECURITY

74. SEX
100)

+18
CODE

CODE

METER