14-00000
104-10183-10262
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2321372
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
FRIORITY DIR CITE SALV 5301
DYVOUR PERUNEN AMNUG
REFSA SALV 5296 (~82314
DIR 52859
01. IN ACCORDANCE REFS COS AND LANOSCH VET JUHILL MORN
13 SEPTEMBER IN COS OFFICE TO FRIEF HIM ON JUAVE 2 RECRUITMENT,
IMPORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. FURILLAS HAS EUCH INFRESS-
ED AND AC CEED ENPHATIGAILY CHICALLY CALY HE AND PRESIDENT WOULD KNOW
RECRUITMENT AND THEY WOULD MAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DULA
204 LANGOSCH FOR THE ST UAVE 2 IS MOST INPOSTANT LOCAL TARET
BECAUSE HE HAS FLEECE OF AND ACCESS TO SCE PARTIES SALU AND
OTHER COUNTRIES, IS POPULAR IN IVERSITY AND STOLENT 08
29 UAPITARY COMMITTEE, TRAVELS FREQUEN
LEADER
TO CO AT SOSCOW, PRA
ITISH CONTACTS, WAS TRAINED
FOR YEARS
IAL IN PARTY: BUT THAT ANY IN
20 LOSS OF JAVE 2 AND ALL HE COULD PRODU

ONE OF HIS AGENTS VAD ALREADY HAS LEET SALV

SECRET
• I2IBR

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:
SECRET
02 PAGE
ARRANGED CONTACT WITH JUVE 2. IN HILL ACCEPTED WITHOUT QUEST
MADE TO DEMANDS, ORTERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTMOST
COOPERATION TO KULARKS CCS AND LA: SCH BELIEVE THERE HAS BEEN NO
SECURITY PROELEN TO DATE.

3. DO NOT PLAV HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT
JAVE 1, ASJE 2 OP TOO IMPORTANT IC RISK DRAWING ATTENTION
TO KUERY PRESENCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE
JAVE INTERROCATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. MIS SILENCE AND
COLLABORATION IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FGRESCING REASON.

MILL JAMES HANDLE EXACTLY AS KUPARK LINES 02
4. HAVE NOT SPECIFIED AMOUNT OF PEMUNERATION TO JUAVE 2 EXCEPT
THAT IT WILL INCLUDE PAYING COST OF FURTHER STUCES OF BROTHER IN
HATE TAPE COSCERS PEST FRC: VIEWPOINT OF ADEQUATE
OR NSTTLE SELL AS FEC SECURITY STANDPOINT. AFTE?

RESΞΑ CFADUATION MED PROTE H SPECIALIZED IN CANCER RESEARCH 08
ESPECIALLY REAT ACER COMPLETING WORK AT ICE AND
EXPECTED PETUN SALY OCTOPER. HAVE TOLD HAVE 2 BROTHER MUST HAVE
SCHOOL AND OTICS FOROS TO ESTACLISH COMPETENCE IN APPLYING FOR

ASAP SURVEST SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS OR RESEARCH
CONE SHOULD APPLY AND WHERE PREFERATLY KUZARK
SECURELY CAT FATE PAPID ACCEPTANCE, TOOTHER WITH SUCRESTEZ
MEANS PAYER SPEAKS ONLY SPANISH BUT HAS PAD INS

HAVE TOLD TO LEAVE JAVE 2 FROTHER MUST
HAVE 2 ANC AT АТОГРТАКОΣ АТ

SECRET
(?)
12/BR
