104-10004-10213
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

YF2-27221
9 July 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Discussion with Warren Commission Staff Member

REFERENCE: Letter from J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel of the
President's Commission, to Mr. Richard Helms
dated 3 July 1964

>O SRICE DISCUSSION with SLAUSON & Tily on
Visa Puccedures,
1. With the approval of C/SR and the DDP, I met with Mr. W.
David Slawson of the staff of the President's Commission on the
Assassination of President Kennedy at 1400 hours on this date in
the Commission's offices at 200 Maryland Avenue, N.E., Washington,
D.C. The purpose of this meeting was to discuss apparent inconsistencies
in material provided the Commission by CIA and by the Department of
State which were called to our attention in a letter from the General
Counsel of the Commission to Mr. Helms, dated 3 July 1964.

2. By way of introduction, Mr. Slawson said that in the portion of the
Commission's report that he was writing, he would have to deal with the
question of whether or not the OSWALDs' departure from the USSR - and
the circumstances (i.e. timing) of that departure were unusual or
suspicious in any way. He expressed his belief that they probably were
not and cited Soviet relaxation in such matters in the post-Stalin era.
However, he wanted to be sure in his own mind that our information was
not in conflict with that which the Commission had received from State
since all of that information would remain in the records of the
Commission.

3. After stating my belief that there was no real disagreement or
inconsistency between the information from CLA and that from State, I
expressed the view that the matter resolved itself into three questions:

Document Number 767-864 /a. Do the Soviet
for FOIA Review on
JUN 1976

iatt. CS COPY

SECRET

SECRET

a. Do the Soviet authorities normally permit Soviet
citizens married to foreign nationals to emigrate from the
Soviet Union to the homelands of their spouses?

b. Do they normally permit such Soviet citizens to
accompany (i.e. depart simultaneously with) their spouses
from the Soviet Union?

c. How long does it take such Soviet citizens to get
Soviet exit visas for such a purpose (time lapse from application
to granting of visas)?

4. Concerning the first two questions (3a and 3b above) I pointed out.
that we had addressed ourselves mainly to the question of Soviet citizens
being allowed to accompany their spouses abroad while State dealt only
with the larger question of Soviets married to foreigners being allowed
to emigrate without reference to whether or not they left simultaneously
with or at another time from their spouses. Mr. Slawson commented
that this explanation was most helpful and he reread what both we and
State had said in that light.

5. By way of further explanation, I said that the statements in
paragraph 6 of our memorandum of 6 April 1964 concerning Soviets being
permitted to accompany their foreign spouses abroad were based on a
review of 26 cases, of which 10 involved Americans. In only four of
these cases did a Soviet wife leave the USSR in the company of her foreign
husband; in 14 of the cases the foreign spouse departed alone; and in the
remaining seven cases insufficient details are known to permit us to
categorize them. I added that although State's information began by
citing the issuance of 724 quota and non-quota immigrant visas by the
American Embassy in Moscow during the period FY 1954 to December
1963, it did not indicate how many of these visas were for Soviet citizens
who had married U.S. nationals. Actually State provided detailed
information for only sixteen cases and did not indicate in many of these
whether or not the Soviet was permitted to accompany the foreign spouse.
16. In response to
-2-
SECRET

SEGRET

6. In response to a question from Mr. Slawson I stated that most
of the 26 cases upon which we based our statements involved foreign
students, exchange teachers and other relatively transient persons,
and while a number of cases have certain points in common, they bear
little similarity to the OSWALD case in that none involved a defector who
married prior to repatriating. I noted that paragraph 6 of our 6 April
1964 memorandum to the Commission had pointed this out. Mr. Slawson
indicated that he was now satisfied on this matter.

7. Concerning the length of time taken by Soviet authorities to
process exit visas for Soviet citizens married to foreign nationals
(question 3c above), I stated that, in my opinion, the information
provided by State (in the third enclosure to Mr. Meeker's letter)
substantially corresponded to the views expressed in paragraphs 6 and 7
of our memorandum to the Commission dated 6 April 1964. Mr. Slawson
asked if it would be possible to elaborate paragraph 7 of our memorandum
of 6 April by providing a statistical breakdown of the cases on which our
statements were based. I indicated that this could be done.

8. At this point Mr. Slawson stated that as a result of our discussion
he felt that the question of possible inconsistencies bad been resolved.
However, he asked that we send a brief written reply to the Commission's
letter of 3 July 1964 embodying the substance of what I had said concerning
the basis for statements included in our 6 April 1964 memorandum. (This
would include the gist of the draft reply to the Commission which I showed
to C/SR on 8 July plus an elaboration of our statements concerning Soviet
visa applications.]

9. Mr. Slawson indicated that he would be sending parts of his report
dealing with the Soviet intelligence services to CIA for checking as to
their accuracy. He did not say when this would occur.

10. After concluding the meeting with Mr. Slawson, I read Volume 52
of the transcript of testimony before the Commission. This included the
reinterview of Marina OSWALD.

Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/CI/Research
-3-
SEGRET

@Do. sors normally permit Sov. cityens married to for
natla to engrate pom Sll to homeland of sprise ?
• State says you - cites 724 visa application
(perbably minority Spouses; mij
belatives ite
ast
- We cite absence of law; do not say.

2
arimally
② Do Sros permit sou. cits menit to fon marks to
accompany (ie depont simultanernely co.) spouses
from Sele to homelandes of spouses
-
State does not say
se cite evidence that they do not
We
ليه
③ How long does it take Soveits to gel. Sevivians
at to homelan Ss of fou Spouses?
to junge at
-Our #7 and State's inse
فه
Cases inhuid. it ikurus ajrec

Notes, Hedin

CS-COPY
dil Ite XAA2-27221

Based on in de la 26 Cail
fre till
out c/ SU.

Safe left line oftenband - 4
28

Matiunt in
mariages of se..
to Westerners.
Used in ripaung
reply to memi
apparent in-
consistencies be
tween CIA & State.

1. On 9 July 1964 Mr. W. David Slawsan and a representative of
CIA discussed the question of apparent inconsistencies in material pro-
vided the Commission by CIA and by the Department of State. At that
time the question was resolved to Mr. Manzen's satisfaction, and it
was agreed that CIA would furnish a statistical breakden of the cases
en which CIA based the statements in paragraph 1 of its menerandum of
6 April 1964.

2. Paragraph 7 of the 6 April Reeraco addressed itself to the
legality and nernality of Soviet citizens departing the USSR simultan-
eously with their foreign speuses. Statements were based on a review
of 26 sases (ten involving Americans) in which foreign nationals married
Seriet citizens in the USSR. In enly three of these 26 cases did the
Soviet wife leave the USSR in the company of her imsband. In two of the
cases an American met his future wife on a visit to the Soviet Union,
married her on a subsequent trip, and brought her back to the U.S. Ne
details are available on the third case, which invelved a Swedish student
whe married a Soviet student and apparently brought her out with him. In

-2-
parted alene. In one were of the 23, the wife preceded her husband
because he had been jailed a menth er tre previously for violation of
travel regulations, and In the seven sther cases the sequeme is not known.

3. The information in the third entlasure to Mr. Meeker's letter
regarding length of time taken by Seriet echorities to process visa
applications of Soviet wives of kerican citizens substantially corres-
ponds with the conclusions which we expressed in paragraph 7 of the sur
6 April memorandum. In ežeren of the 25 eases, this time period is
known fairly definitely er san be inferred. In three cases it took fron
five to nine months. Inferring is the other eight cases, three took
about six months, two more were issued in net more than nine to eleven
rossied
months, and three teet a minimum of seven to twelve months. Apparent
inconsistencies between these statisties and these provided by the State
Department undoubtedly arise from a differeme in appreash by the State
Department and CIA.

In three cases there was a lapse of several months between
application and isscance of the Soviet exit visa (five months in ene
ease, six in the second, and far in the third). In another case the
Western husband was reluctant to leave the USSR without his Soviet wife.
Be did se sens six months after the wedding only because the Soviet
authorities told him that her exit application could not be precessed
until he had left. The visa was fesmed only about six weeks after his
departure, but it may have been applied for when they were married er
at any time during the next six smths.

In four other cases it possible to infer approximate time lixits
for the granting of an exit visa. Ime was granted within four to five
menths, the second within sir to servem senths, the third within nine
menths, and the fourtin within elem meaths. In three additional cases
visa issuance teek a winivan of seven, eleven, and twelve months res-
pestively.

Miscellaneous notes on Sors married to
foreigners
Arlene & ZASLAVSKIY has for hustand; has hired.
Iny Harold BERAIAN to plead care I get him
(2 Oct 62)
Yelena KNYAZKINA
arrived in
cut of USSR..
Leonard KIRSCH's Sov wife has ar USA.
2.10.62
Joseph it. FONDEM, resident of former Brit Camersons.
:
Came to USSR 24.12.60. Hoe been visiting An Emb
se continuing his studies in U.S. Married to..
sor girl. daims she ostracized by family &
friends - she, he, 7.toby som lieve to scroung
friend
-
Y
i
housing in. clloscow by testing renting people's
extra rooms at 30-40 rubles per month which
illegal, Claims his plight shared by a
mosaber of illur Ffrican students marined
to Sor gals. Ior authorities compound problems
by not letting wives have country. Embassy.
Mates FONDENT as questionable and opportunistic.
AmEmb Moscow Despatch A-308, 31.8.62.
Gid 36
wchange sus at choreon
Edgar LEHRMAN, US wchy
U.;
AKAKUVA,
prof of lit at Emory Univ, Atlanta, Ga. To be
married tomorrow to itliss Ruth MAKAKUVA,
24-gr.blo 24-op old hist of art stuitint at ellosion
Univ. Today they submitted a certificate of

Moscow or Friory?
Proofs of sanity had bein dimausted by
sanity for her to marriage bureau ofels.
Sor authorities. LEHRMAN would not conferim
Hory - no comment for reposter; but vuiversity
sourers said the couple was told sno wedding
till she got certif of savity. Emb officials
said they had never heard of such a ramt.
Moscow AP, 3/27. What year?
Lee Harvey OSWALD
201-289.248 30.8.62
OSWALD. cAtitract
:DBA-20883,

Nils THELIN. Avedish exchange student of
1960-61 program. al
bring
Nils is one of
ram. Has not yet been able to
out Russian wife, which may plaing
liis pro-Sov friendliness " at present.
TICRYSTAL-1 entact Apt 10 Apr 62. group
Nils was aca. O AEGRISTLE-1 I wife Rimma KRAVTIOVA, Married Sorgils.
who married in Larad.
61.
Lyraid seily bl.
T
sent. The three in
That year's
group whe
of
Kurt JOHANSSON, Awedish cycliange soft student.
married Tamara SEREBRENNI KOVA, who was
calist. AEPROMISE (201-274504)
TASS gomnalist.
Married July 61; finally united in
Sereden in Aphel 2 On after various diffi-
culties". He the third of the swed-Sov
scleolarship students to marry Sergalithe
other 2 iwere able to bring their urves home

Tamara insisted on church wedding os art! os
registration.
wcently. She hopes take up his work
again" when Swedish good enough. He was
recruited by us. Station suspects RIS in
though
volvement in this marriage. The supposedly for
daughter of I punged purged id Sor ofer, Komsomol member
party), impt job in TASS.
See more info in
We
Het OSSA11545 15.6.62: Ver close wands !
-
family Kisunily swere on her side about
Gigaer, but casual acunaintars gave,
her side about wroutung marry for
acunaintares gave her hart
nice to her," she said.
lime
tithe. Sor police surprisingly
Husband had not had too much difficulty
etting her out: he got cut faster than the
Other 2 - one took 4 mod or not out yet.
considers her processing fine walthe
they m married last July. Nir processing cened
neet begin until be ready to leave USSR, So
the lift Tou 62 when schilarship inded. Her
pree then began, & he was told "wid-Fe's that
We could corker get lur. Muiss delayed. She
carries . lifetime Sor external passport." They
have called at Sov Emb se " possibility of riteersing
to USSR." Fold that he could go as tourist
suy time but that it would take it ins is
jprocess for her to inter Disk if laws to Gove

again.

Gunnar NORDENSTAM. One of the 4 1960-61
Seved exchange stidouts. Married Natalya
Korshinskaya, a, Inturist Inturist guide guide in beningrad:
He left Egreat Ang 61, home to Gothenbury, As
of spring 82, wife not yet out. (Aceto press acct,
This she got ont e. phil. Dee ben 201 under
Nordenstam. Another ref says she got visa Feb
62 and juured him in Ellarch.
201207
John SANDOR 201-276467, American Nung
extraction. Lawyer born 1914. First wife killed in
Tham wreck during WW II. July 1956 he was
in Moscow as meant of tourist group from
Natl Editorial Assoc. Love at first sight w/
Viktoriya Kanorna KOCHUROVA 201-276469;
Inture'st interpreter/guide at Hotel Moskva.
Proposed saine day, she accepted rest day
the still marned to sor busband BLINKOV
Avon Meseyevich (sic). IS A brsa ran out
lifore they could marry. [Gep in story ). the

5
208
29.12.26.

divorced from BLINKOVCMay 57. Viktoriya
Still Intibust at Moskva July 57. Married IS
2 Nov 57. Lived (she or they?) at Hotel
National till departure from USSR
Is had oppar tried to get. Sor sisa for
6 mo tot before returning to USSR Nov 57.
gave Is bermission to stay
reed. They arrived Ny
Sor gout gare
thet gover her exit permit
31.3:58
limit reed.
USSR
Lept 59 SR/3/PP interested in using Is for
contacting sor tourists - but never did. Not
$? she had numerous relatives in
approved?
USSR as of 1961.
USSR on exch
Det 58 for
Asser or Touko LAVIKALA, Finnish, law student. To
for 58-59 year. Married
Sov girt at unknorin date. Afterwards KOB
sinfplusd him he must work for them, or no wi
infrared
the
Rea for leer. We finally signed but told
VALINK when gott home.

Allen David PACKLER US citizen; married.
LYOVINA Core Bio card for 2017).
Lilya
card for
LUNDAHL Married: ZELENKOVIA 201-332736.
Achillijs LYMBOURIDES. Married Aelita Borisoria
DYOMINA DEMINAR
Aug
59. 201-312213,
SCOGHAMIGLIO WAA fractably excluded
1
He he ju made mu much
lom pel
excluded from
Ifficulty about
getting his wife out" of BSSR.
much diffic about ber exit visa
Just for effect, since she ad
Pertitel at grid Unir.
-
Sors made
admittedly
maske
ков

old Brit serontist-
?clyn CRANE-ROBINSON, 26-grold
From Manchester, has belu studying in USSR,
Mikhailovna ROSANOVA on 23 June (year?)
Leningrad. Nas to marry 24-ze old grina
at Pelace 1. AMariages, but liis living permit
&. his
illipired 22.6. de He reavested extension
but the authorities simply sat it was
that his time hindifsired intreu
unfortunate unfortu
afraid they could

December
not make exception for this sort of thing."
Asked brim to leave, so crash packing tout that
night on BALTIKA. Ofels supposedly told him
no reason believe bie the wouldn't get visa to
return. Colyn said the had been told that
"if someone married a Soviet girl she would
be able to leave the county.
Chilean
"
Alvaro OCAMPO, son of Catan Aui's to USSR, married
Sov Lidiya LIESSINA (chambermaid in
Braz Amb's residence Sand hence KOBJ).
in 1947 when he 23 yrs old. Mid-47 father
trausferved. Sors required allow git leave,
despite Chilean severance of dipto rels wy...
USSR in Nir 47. Chil Amb stayed in Mose tiel
Sept 49 (as private eit ?), in futile attempt to
change Sov Gor position. Hvaro stayed on,
c
working at Argentine Eub. Mattir unsuccess-
fully introdu eld at Wi6A aris 1948. Latest
hug 61
Istate knows is remark impersonal muzesinal letter from
FSD in Moscow to Sirend in issknisk Hash, Saying

Alvaro still in Moscow married to Lidiyan
AEMYRIAD/manied Ol'ga RASMIN, yestogne student.
interviewed by
Geology
When they engaged, she called to dean's off t
Frewed by 2 KGB niks who vaid she
would never be allowed to leave & Marry
him unless she accepted rentnt-which she
supposedly would nit do.
FOLDERS NOT CHECKED. :
Halians
US 1961-62
Americans
LUNDAHL Lidiya
kee
ee ZELENKOVA 201-,352736

See 201-234750 on Tamara S.KUNGUROVA.

On his second trip to the USSR in January 1959, Philip Robert
NIELSON, REDS KIN agent, was given an INTURIST interpreter/guide named
Tamara Stepanovna KUNGUROVA, A romance developed between them and NIELSON
became determined to marry her, which he finally did in the spring of 1962.

His family did everything in their power to discourage this romance and John
Hafnes of the State Deptartment received letter from FIELSON's father re
affair.Not seeking help but advice on what to do.

NIELSON later received letter from his father in fall 1960 giving in
details the contents of a conversation father had had with John Hanes of State.
Koumoondabddd
Hanes stated that:

a. All American-Soviet marriages had turned out to be unsuccessful.

b. The Soviets never let one of their nationals out of the country under
such circumstances unless the person had been recruited as a spy.

c.The Soviets will prctably not given NIELSON & visa (he tried unsuccess-
fully all summer and fall 1960 and in 1961 to get Scv visa).

Ath regard to the marriage of a Soviet to a foreigner, Nora
KORZHENKO (who married a British diplomat in the 194018) has this
to say: "Host of the women who have married foreigners must have agreed
at one time or another to carry out some cort of spy work for the Soviets.
Otherwise, they would not have been given permission to marry foreigners,
for even the marriage certificate has to be issued by the secret police."
Nora, herself, was recruited by State Security through coercion and only
allowed to leave the country by agreeing to work for Sombet State Security.
This she never did seance out of the country, she broke completely with
the Soviets and it is presumed that she has furnished information on
that organization to the British Services.( Services. (XI Spied for Stalin by
Nora Murray).
beeare,
sex
A
Petr DERYABIN, State Security officer who defected in 1954, has this
to say about the Soviet women who have contact with or who marry foreigners:
Soviet women associating with foreign men will be recruited by State Security
when the association is first begun, or after it has developed, or when plans
for marriage have been made. "Even if only 5% of these women are 100%
loyal State Security workers, and the others work less loyally, it is still
considered a worthwhile operation. No woman known to be anti-Soviet would
ever be given a visa to leave the country, even if she were married to an
ambassador. The Soviets instruct all persons in this category to make romarks
against the Soviet Union when abroad, but these remarks are not to be too strong,
nor are they made for publication by press or radio."

In the early 1960s, when anyoung American was thinking of marrying an
INTURIST guide, his father contacts a knowledgeable official of the State
Department who made the following remarks:
1. All American-Soviet marriages had turned out to be unsuccesful
2. The Soviets never let one of their natioanls out of the country under
such circumstances (marriage to a foreigner) unless the person had been recruited
is a spy.

It is believed that the Counterintelligence Directorate, Krifport
(Kontrrazvedyvatelnoye upravheniye-KRU), of the KGB initiates operations
against foreigners inside the USSR, When the operation leads outside the
USSR into foreign countries,i.e., when the probable recruitments have been
achieved, and the persons in question leave the USSR, the operation is thên
turned over to the Foreign Intelligence Directorate (Inostrannoye upravleniye-
which
INU) who continues the operation until such time as it is terminated.

John SANDOR - Mt and proposed to Viktoriya KOCHHACVA in 1956, but
had to leave USSR before they could get married. Returned in 1957
and married her Nov. Arrived together in US in March 1958.

Folder
1.
Aresicout
✓ STERN Arlene. Men que ser ausband out
ictRintuil Edge
PENDILL Cent. Marind
Wife
io US mid-50'S. AND LOUSHITS 211- 28946
KIRSCH Louriasid. Gele
Gelir a
MMELSON Philip. Morind
He alors,
KHIAZKIA.
Contite
Inter guide tamaa KursurovA spring 62..
OLSEN Clack. Ledinta TERUTAMA 501.00 mil
Marel 65
65 she reading of the sites Mossos.
He left alone.
✔
HEOARTY Thos, V.
IVANOVA. the rest issue 18.57.

Sally
26 July 1963
Soviet women married to other nationals
BORISOVA, Natalya (201-311072) - married to Italian Scognomiglia whom
LYOVINA, Lilya
ZELENKOVA,
LHU, Natalya
SEREBFENIKOVA, Tamara
SHOLOVA, Tamara
she left. Living with another Italian,
ACONE-
married to Allen David PACELER, U.S.
citizen. She has 201 file. See SR/6/Bio
card for number.
- married to LUNDAHL. 201-332736
- married Gunnar NORDENSTAM from
Bothenburg. Now living in Jutteborg.
Married AEPROMISE/1-SEE SR/Z

Leningrad Univ. born ca. 1936-37.
Former INTURIST guide. My records
do not indicate to whom she is
married.

LIMBOURIDI, Aelita Borisoma
nee DYOHINA
aka DEMINA
Louise
- Born Zadarxxagias Yalta, 29 May 1934.
Harried to Achillefs LYMBOURIDES
in August 1959. 201-312213.
