14-00000
104-10172-10265 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

SBSR-843
23 February 1973

CI INFORMATION REPORT

SUBJECT: Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN

SOURCE: AESMASH

REFERENCE: SBSR-547

DISSEMINATION
CONTROLS: Any further dissemination must be coordinated with
C/SB/CI/P.

COMMENTS: Attached are SB requirements
based on Reference, and a
report containing Source's
reply to those requirements.

ORIGINATOR: Frank McNulty, SB/CI/P

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - IP/AN/SB for 16412230-746/4
2 - x-ref to 201-294855-
1 - SB/CI/P 321-679755
1 - SS/CI/I
1 - SS/CI/X
1 - SB/CI/R
1 - SS/COPS
1 - C/CI/OPS
1 - SB/XO
1 - SS/I/USSR

1 - SB/XO
1 - SB/X/EUR
1 - SB/RIS
1 - EUR/SC

SECRET
CL BY: 007672

CONTENTS CLASSIFIED BY-055318
31876

113-20-421
ZIBR

SECRET

Requirements on Remaining Source Reports

Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN
05
TEPLYANOWA did not in fact meet GOLITSINA as
previously stated but only knew of her and GOLITSYN
from her parents.

2. Source is quite clear about GOLITSYN's instructions
and had not confused the names of GOLITS and KOSKO.
GOLUBEV had been sent a directive from Moscow setting
out his main tasks. This was couched in somewhat rough,
direct words in order to put him on the right lines.
Source did not deduce from what was in this directive
that the K.G.B. believed that either man was living in
England. It certainly stated that NOSEIKO had visited
England after his defection and that GORIOV had
visited England several times. Source knows only what
GOLUBEV told him and what was in the directive; he has
no idea why the K.G.B. believed that either of the two
defectors had visited the U.K.

SECRET

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING IN
UBR

Para. 2: It is stated here that Source's wife, while
visiting her parents in Helsinki heard GOLITSYN'S
story (presumably this means his defection) and also
met his wife. The word order implies that she met
Mrs. GOLITSYN after hearing about the defection, but
this could not be, since Mrs. GOLITSYN defected with
her husband. Please clarify this and give details of
the GOLITSYN story she heard. That were the dates
of her visit to Helsinki?
10
Para、3-b: The wording of this paragraph is almost identical
to much of paragraph 3-b of Source's report on Yuriy
Ivanovich NOSEIKO, regarding GOLUBEV's instructions,
KGB belief that both defectors had visited England,
KGB attempts to locate them, etc. The main difference
as given in these reports is that NOSEIKO is said to
have been in the UK in 1965, and GOLITSYN "several
times". Since NOSEIKO did not visit the UK in 1965
but we understand that GOLITSYN did make several visits,
we wonder (in view of the strong similarities in wording)
if there may be a garble in Source's reporting. Does
Source have any idea as to why the KGB believed either
of the two defectors had visited the US?

SECRET
7
21BR
