14-00000
104-10174-10030 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CECILT

10 May 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Payment to Edvard G. Tichborn (P)

1. On 9 May this office received a telegram (in the file) from Tichborn (P) dated 5 May 1960 in which he stated that he had not yet received his check for $650.00 from Ashmead, Hanniferd & Associates

2. The undersigned contacted Mr. Thomas Strange, Cover Division, to find out the reason for this delay. After following up this request he informed me that said check had cleared Tichborn's (P) California bank on 27 April, the Federal Reserve on 29 April and is now in Cover Division as a cancelled check.

3. I tried to phone Tichborn (P) late Monday afternoon (9 May) but he was not in his office. I reached him this morning and advised him that the money had beer deposited in his bank on the date noted above. Tichborn (P) said he had not checked with the bank but would do so.

Evalena S. Vidal
Political Action Division

(253203)

zind

CLASS OF SERVICE
This is a fast message unless its deferred character is indicated by the proper symbol.

WESTERN UNION
TELEGRAM
W. P. MARSHALL. Pessibent

SYMBOLS
DL-Day Letter
NL Night Letter
LTLet. Telegram

The bling time shown in the dove live ea domestic relegrams is LOCAL TIME of pains of oricis of orisis There AL TIMEm point of dexinsion

LLF429 08154 LA610
L LLJ201 PO LOS ANGELES CALIF 5 250P PDT 5 PM 6 02
HENRY DARKIN
PO BOX 8105 SOUTHWEST STATION WASHDO
NO WORD FROM CASHNEAD YET. PLEASE CHECK. MAY HAVEMISMAILED.
BEST REGARDS
(HENRY LOPEZ.)
09
24

(253203)
08
