14-00000.
104-10172-10201
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ ⃝ INTERNAL
☐ CONF ENTIAL ☑ SECRET
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: AELADLE

FROM SR/CI/K -[CURTS ]
extension 993
date 15 NOV 65

TO: (officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from wham.
building) RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. "CI/R and A
for your retention.
2. TRHML
NAHIT
17/11
3. Ru Rocca 17/11
2

5. e/e/ 18 NOV 1955
9. 01/516 M.Sall
дил
10. purs. E

FORM 610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL ☐ UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY

5/
SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SUBJECT: AE STORAGE No. 1060
AELADLE

DOI: 1961 1963 or 1964

NOTE: AE STORAGE represents a collation of information
provided by several reliable and sensitive sources,
some of them documentary. AESTORAGE information is
not to be released outside of the Clandestine Services
Components of CIA unless written authorization has been
granted by C/SR/CI. AE STORAGE information may be trans-
mitted to CIA field stations only after it has been
coordinated with C/SR/CI.

1. Source transited Helsinki in May 1961, at which time he
obtained a visa at the Soviet Embassy from one KLIMOV. Beginning
shortly after Christmas 1961 and continuing on and off for the
next three months, Source was interrogated by the KGB in Moscow
about his contacts with the KGB Legal Residency in Helsinki.
Source prepared a written report giving in detail the physical
description of all KGB officers who had met him in Helsinki.

2. In 1963 or 1964 Source was told by the KGB that it was
unlikely he would ever be assigned to the United States as a
Soviet who had defected in Helsinki could personally identify
Source.

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - AELADLE
1 - DC/SR/CI
1 - SR/CI/I
1 - SR/CI/I

SR/CI/I/ HINason:mjc

Frank,
After further
research & lovely
SECRET discussions, RESTORE
NO FOREIGN DISS AESAMSHU, PROTECT
the "AE" Digraph only.

21 Apr 98
