14-00000
104-10070-10296 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

18 January 1952
Washington R. S. Travis 2268
New York SENSITIVE
Secret-Security Information

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) WA 8622
THIS IS SENSITIVE
THIS IS NEW CASE 9145. REFERENCE MADE TO KANK LEA'S CONVERSATION YESTERDAY
WITH TRAVES AND ROSE REGARDING THE OPC REQUEST FOR CONTACT WITH THE RESEARCH
INSTITURE OF AMERICA. AS ROSE INDICATED, HE WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON WEDNESDAY,
23 JANUARY, KAND WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOU MAKE APRANGEMENTS TO MEET WITH THE
APPROPRIATE PERSON OR PERSONS IN RIA TO DISCUSS A COVER CASE. (ROSE HAS ADVISED
THAT BOTH LEO CHERNE AND CARL HOVGARD HAVE BEEN GIVEN COVERT OPERATIONAL
CLEARANCES. FOLLOWING IS THE BACKGROUND OF THIS CASE. THERE IS A MAN BY THE
NAME OF WILLIAM J. ACOM, PRESENTLY WORKING FOR ECA IN WASHINGTON WHO IS GOING
TO RESIGN FROM ECA AND COME WITH CIA, AND WILL GO OVERSEAS FOR OPC. HE IS
GOING TO LEAVE ECA SOHETIME AROUND THE END OF THIS MONTH, AND MUST HAVE SOME
EXPLANATION AS TO THE REASON FOR HIS RESIGNATION. THEREFORE, OPC WISHES
TO LOCATE SOME FIRM WHICH WILL BE WILLING TO BACKSTOP ACON'S
RESIGNATION, IN THE FORM OF SUPPOSEDLY HIRING ACON. ACON HAS BEEN A RESEARCH
ANALYST ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PROBLEMS IN ITALY, AND IT IS FELT THAT
PERHAPS, EMPLOYMENT WITH RIA WOULD BE A LOGICAL REASON TO
GIVE FOR RESIONING FROM ECA. THE RIA COVER WILL NOT BE UTILIZED FOR ACON'S
COVER OVERSEAS. ABOUT ALL THAT WOULD BE MUIRED OF RIA WOUND BE TO ACKNOWLEDGE,

SENSITIVE STORET SECURITY INFORMATION
07433

***

14-00000

SECHED SENSITIVE

VSECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK

TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS FROM LEASECURITY INFORMATION CITE NY 2392

CASE 9145.
THIS IS SENSITIVE.
REW-8622 RPT W-8622. LEO CHERNE RPT LED CHERNE
IS THE MAN WE HAVE SET UP AN APPOINTMENT FOR NEXT WEDNESDAY AT 3:30
RPT 3:30 PM SO ROSE APR ROSE BETTER BE HERE IN THIS OFFICE EY 2:30 RPT
2:36 DM.
PLEASE CONFIRM.
GR-62 love advised he
will be they at 2:30.
on 23 an.

07434

***

14-00000

21 Jamary 1952
Washington R. S. Travis 2268
New York Scret Security Information-Sensitive

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) WA 865
THIS IS SENSITIVE. RE CASE 9145 AND UR NY 0392, ROSE ADVISES THE WILL
BE IN YOUR OFFICE BY 2:30 Pll on WEDNESDAY, 28xx 23 JANUARY. THANKS VERY
MUCH.

SECRET SECURITY DIFORMATION SENSITIVE
07435

***

14-00000

WILLIAM JACER ACE

Background Information
Born: April 6, 1921 in Amsterdam, Netherlands
Single
American citizen
Education:
Amsterdam High School Amsterdam, Netherlands
St. Louis University, St. Louis, Missouri - ASTP 6/432/44
Georgetown Foreign Servics School 2 yrs. 6/47-8/48
University of Chicago M.A. in International Economic
Relations in 1951
Languages: German, Dutch, French and Italian

Thesis: "Post-war Economic Recovery in the Netherlands and
The Marshall Plan" (received honors)
Employment Record:
June 1950- present International Economist, GS-7, in
European Program Division of ICA. Mainly concerned
with Italian and Trieste economie affairs. Analysed
economic and financial position of Italy in light of
ECA aid program, and handled administration of the
aid program itself. Also prepared two, three and
four year forecasts designed to show expected
economic trends and developments in Italy. These
vere included in the ECA congressional presentations..
Oct. 47 June '48 Research analyst in Historical Division
of Department of the Army. Engaged in selection
of and formulation of reports on German documents
which shed light on the West Europe campaign.
Oct. 46 Feb. 47 Archivist in Office of Military Government
for Germany, Department of the Army. Served as
chief of the Documents Library, collected reports,
dispatches, cables, ete and developed an index system."
Jan. 45 - Aug 45 Assistant to Food and Agriculture Officer
with Military Gov's Section of Hg. Twelfth Army
Group. Duties consisted mainly of availability and
requirements studies comacted with food needs of the
German popalation
3000 Perter It,
Washington, DC.
Woodley 9700

07436

***

14-00000

SECRET SENSITIVE

SECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK
TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS FROM LEA-SECURITY INFORMATION CITE NY 0470
:
THIS IS SENSITIVE.
CASE 9145.
THE MEETING TODAY WITH CHERNE RRT CHERNE WAS COMPLETELY SUCCESSFUL.

WHEN HE GETS BACK TO WASHINGTON, ROSE IS GOING TO SUBMIT TO US THROUGH
YOU ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON ACON RPT ACON WHICH WE WILL
TURN OVER TO CHERNE
WE WOULD SUGGEST THAT WHEN ACON MAKES HIS PITCH AT ECA RPT ICA AND TELLS
THEM THAT HE IS BEING OFFERED A JOB WITH THE RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF
AMERICA THAT HE STRESS THE NAME OF LEO CHERNE WHO ACTUALLY WILL BE THE
ONLY PERSON WHO WILL BE ABLE TO BACK UP THIS STORY.

Disired with Rose. He will
furnich data to wo
Copy sent to Rent

07437

***

14-00000

SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION
25 January 1952
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Backstopping of Cover by the Research Institute
of America

1. Pursuant to conversations between Mr. Rose and Mr. Engels of
CIA/ope and Mr. Travis of 00/Contacts, an appointment was made for Mr.
Ross to see Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secretary of the Research Insti-
tute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, to explore the
willingness of Mr. Cherme to backstop the cover story of a proposed
agent in training. The appointment was made, and kept, for Wednesday.
morning, 23 January 1952 in New York City in the presence of Mr. Clark
of the New York branch of the Contacts Division.

2. The proposed story of the agent in question, who had bein em-
ployed on the economic research side of ECA specializing in Italy, was
that he wished to resign from ECA and take up an offer to be extended
to him in civilian employment. Since the Research Institute of America
assumed to fit in naturally with his background and activities in ECA,
Mr. Cherne was asked:
a. If he would backstop the agent's story that he was
quitting ECA to take employment with the Pesearch Institute of
America during his three months period of training with CIA,
and
b. Whether he would in fact employ the agent and send
him as a representative of the Institute to Italy at the con-
clusion of his period of training.
Mr. Cherne replied that unfortunately the latter was impossible
inasmuch as his company did not send personnel overseas in any capacity.
As regards the immediate backstopping of the agent's story, however,
Mr. Cherne said that he would be happy to oblige for a period of train-
ing only, to wit, three months, after which other cover would have to
be sought. Mr. Cherne requested that he be furnished at an early date
with more complete information as to what was to be expected of him
in his role as a backstop and further stated that he would like to
meet the agent personally as soon as could be arranged. This has been
communicated to Mr. Engels, the case officer, who will oblige at the
earliest opportunity.
3. This case
SECRET
07438

***

14-00000

SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION
-2- Note case may be referred to for further discussion and/or
information on Number C/101.
EDWARD A. ROSE
OD/OP
OD/OP/BAR/TO
25 Jan 52
Distributions
OD/OP (Rose), orig
Contacts 1
Division/00 1
ME- (Engels): 1
OD/OP 2
SD/FE 2

SECRET

***

14-00000

SECRET
Security Information

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Edward A. Rose
SUBJECT: 7 February 1952
Cover Story for Research Institute of America

1. Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic
Relations from the University of Chicago, has been working for
ECA. He has been hired by the Research Institute of America to
do economic research and writing for their weekly newsletter on
economic subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon
knows Dutch, German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted
that he would like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has
not yet found a way.
2. His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo
Cherne will be informed when the story is to be used. By that
time, Mr. Acon will have called on Mr. Cherne.
DJW/atp DANIEL J. WHEALTON
WE-4

07439

***

14-00000

SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SECRET
Security Information

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer's initials should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a
line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to respond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

NO. DATE
WE -4 7 Fel 52
X3863

TO ROOM DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS
NO REC'D FWD'D INITIALS
1. ODIOP 1704 267 Jul 3 22 2
2. Mr. Rose 4 1912 1912
3. 00/Co ER Bot Wans you please
Mr Travis. see that the hew Juli
4. Office gets this & pass
on to LC vebally
5. manage.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12. C/10
13.
14.
15.
Came 9145

FORM NO. 51-10 16-01100-1 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
FEB 1950

SECRET
07440

***

14-00000

New York Office
Contact Division SENSITIVE
Case 9145 13 February 1952

1. When Rose of OPC was in New York on 23 January 1952 to discuss
cover with Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secy, of the Research Institute of:
America, Mr. Cherne requested additional information as to what was to
be expected of him in his role as a backstop to the cover being established
for the OPC man. The following information has been forwarded by OPC,
and is quoted below. Mr. Rose requests that you pass this information
on to Mr. Cherne.

a. "Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic Relations
from the University of Chicago, has been working for ECA. He has
been hired by the Research Institute of America to do economic
research and writing for their weekly newsletter on economic
subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon nows Dutch,
German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted that he would
like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has not yet found
a way.

b. "His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo Cherne will
be informed when the story is to be used. By that time, Mr. Acon
will have called on Mr. Cherne."

2. We are closing this case. Should further action be required,
we will reopen.

RSTravio/1mp E. M. ASHCRAFT

SENSITIVE

07440

***

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET OO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK
TO ASHCRAFT FOR SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) FROM LEA SECURITY
INFORMATION CITE NY 2315

CASE 9145.

1. WILL YOU TELL ROSE RPT ROSE THAT THE APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE
RPT LEO CHERNE HAS BEEN SET UP FOR WEDNESDAY, 4 RPT 4 JUNE AT 11:30
RPT 11.30 A.M.

2. PLEASE CONFIRM

GR-58 Rose advised - he will
make the appointment
25 PM 52

07441

***

14-00000

June 1952
Washington R. S. Travis 2268
New York Secret-Security Information

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS)W 1301
CASE 9145 AND UR NY 2315. (ROSE ADVISES THAT HE WILL KEEP APPOINTMENT WITH CHERNE
AS SET-UP IN YOUR MESSAGE.

SECRET

07448

***

14-00000

SECRET
Security Information
May 1952
Chief, Contact Division, 00
Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/OSO
Appointment with William A. BARRON, John E. TOULMIE
and Leo CHERNE
References CS-1512 and CS-1337

1. This will confirm Mr. Rose's verbal request that the
Contact Division/00 ask its Boston field office to arrange
appointments for Mr. (Edward Rose of Cover Division, PLANS/oso,
to see Mr. William A. Barron, Chairman of the Board, Gillette
Safety Razor Company, and Mr. John E. Toulmin, Senior Vice
President of the First National Bank of Boston, at their con-
venience on Wednesday May 21, 1952. The purpose of the visit
is to explore the willingness of these gentlemen to act as
ostensible donors of funds to support a current operation.

2. This will also confirm Mr. Rose's request that the
New York City field office of the Contact Division/00 arrange
an appointment for Mr. Rose to see lar. Leo Cherne, President
of the Research Institute of America at Mr. Cherne's conven-
ience on Thursday May 22, 1952. Mr. Cherne, who has for some
time been backstopping the activities of an agent in this
country, has apparently expressed willingness to provide
cover for this agent abroad. The purpose of the interview is
to discuss more fully Mr. Cherne's proposal. Cover Division
would be happy to have an 00 field office representative
present to insure continuity.

3. As a result of the above requests, Mr. Barron found
to his regret that he was unable to cooperate with the Agency
at the present time. Mr. Toulmin, on the other hand, was
most cooperative. Mr. Cherne, unfortunately, was out of town.
The New York field office has been asked to try to arrange a
meeting with Mr. Cherne, as outlined above, for Wednesday
afternoon, June 4, 1952.

SECRET
Security Information
07443

***

14-00000

SECRET
Security Information

Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
CS-1357 (Rose)
DATE: 6 June 1952
TO: Chief, Contact Division, 00
FROM: Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/00/
SUBJECT: Field Trip to Interview Leo CHERNE 9141
Reference: CS-1357

1. On Wednesday, June 4, 1952, an interview was arranged
by the Contact Division, 00, for Mr. Rose of the Cover Division,
PLANS/OSO with Mr. Leo Cherne, President of the Research
Institute of America. The meeting was held at 11:30 am. in
Mr. Cherne's office at 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, and
Mr. Rose was accompanied by Mr. Clark of the New York field
office of Contact Division, 00.

2. Mr. Cherne, who is currently (backstopping an operation
within the United States, had expressed the wish to be provided
with some form of letter indicating that the Agency was request-
ing his cooperation, and the purpose of the interview was to
inform Mr. Cherne that this was against Agency policy.

3. This information was accordingly conveyed by Mr. Clark
and Mr. Rose to Mr. Cherne who acospted it with good grace. In
reply to a question by Mr. Rose he indicated that this refusal
would in no way mitigate his desire to be of service to the
Agency.

SECRET
Security Information
07444

***

14-00000

Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Files
DATE: 4 MARCH 1954
FROM : Coleman

SUBJECT: Case 1 9145
On 3 March Ormond requested that a meeting be set up for him with Leo Cherne,
President of the Research Institute of America. Ormond said that he would not
need more than a half an hour. Called Connor who had Bob McCann set up meeting
with Cherne for Monday(8th March) at 3:00p.m. Ormond will go to the New York
Office at 2:15 on Monday to meet McCann and take off for the meeting. This
meeting was requested as a Cat III, and McCann will have to gow out after
introduction. Ormond is happy, New York is happy.

07445

***

14-00000
COLEMAN
SUPPORT
2268 SECRET
4 MARCH 1954
NEW YORK ROUTINE

TO LEA FOR CONNOR FROM ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT (COLEMAN)
CASE X88 9145. RE CONNOR/COLEMAN TELECONS OF 3 MARCH, ORMOND WILL BE IN
YOUR OFFICE AT 2:15, MONDAY THE 8TH OF MARCH PRIOR TO THE CAT III APPOINTMENT
YOU HAVE ARRANGED FOR HIM WIB: LEO CHERNS. THANKS.

SPOR

07446

***

14-00000

Office Memorandum SECRET UNITED STATES GOVERNME
TO : Chief, Contact Division, 00 CS-1337 (Ormond)
FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Division DATE: 4 March 1954

SUBJECT: Requested meeting with Leo Cherne 00/C Case 9115
1. On 3 March 1954, Mr. Coleman of your office was requested
by lir. Ormond to arrange a Category III meeting for him with Leo
Cherne of Research Institute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New
York City. The identity of an agent and the area in which he will
be stationed will be discussed. On the same date Er. Coleman in-
formed that the appointment had been made for 3:00 PM on 8 Harch
1954. Ormond was requested to arrive at the New York 00/C office
between 2:00 - 2:15 PM to meet Bob cCann who will accompany him to
Cherne's office and make the introduction.

2. Cover Division appreciates the assistance rendered by your
office. Mr. Ormond will follow the above instructions.
7.
b

07447

***

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Contact Division, 00
FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Division

SUBJECT 8 00/C case 9145
17 March 1954
CS-1337 (Ormond)

1. On 8 March 1954, pursuant to arrangements that had been made
by your office, Bob McCann of your New York office introduced Mr.
Ormond to Mr. Leo Cherne of the Research Institute of America, 292
Madison Avenue, New York City. As a Category III interview had been
requested, Mr. McCann departed. soon after the introduction was made.

2. We would like to inform you that Mr. Cherne was cordial and
agreed to cooperate with the Agency as requested.

3. On 15 March 1954, Mr. Ormond again met with Mr. Cherne in his
office at New York City to discuss further the operational matter. You
were previously informed of Ormond appointment on 15 March 1954 and
while in New York on that day, he visited your New York office.

4. Your assistance in this matter is indeed appreciated by Cover
Division.

07448

***

14-00000
COLEMAN SECRET
SUP. DRT
2268 ROUTTHE
23 March 1954
NEW YORK
FOR CONNOR

TO LEA/PROH ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT(COLEMAN) 2499
CASE 9145. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, OLIVER ORHOND WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON 23 MARCH FOR
A 10:30 A.. MEETING WITH KIR LEO CHERNE. HE WILL COME TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE MOUT
1 PM FOR THE PURPOSE OF DELIVERING A CHECK TO AMOS BELDEN INRE CASE 8417.

SECRET
BECRET

07449

***

14-00000
17 Jan R. S. Travis 2268
SECRET

CONNOR KROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) NA 8244
CASE 9145 REOPENED. RAY MILLARD HAS REQUESTED THAT YOU TRY TO SER SET UP
APPOINTMENT FOR HIM WITH LEO CHERNE IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CASE FOR
SOMET HE NEXT WERK. PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WILL BE TO SEE CHERNE ABOUT
KXTENDING COVER ARRANGEMENT POR ADDITIONAL PERICE OF TIME. REQUEST
THAT THIS APPOINTMENT BE COORDINATED WITH ONE REQUESTED FOR MILLARD UNDER
CASE 18945 (COLEMAN). THANKS VERY MUCH.

TA

SECRET

07450

***

14-00000
SEC SECRET
WA CITE NYOR 1191
SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN 19 3 19

CASE 9145 X 9145
RAY MILLARD X RAY MILLARD HAS APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE X LED CHERNE
ON THURSDAY 6 X 26 JANUARY AT 4 PM X 2 PM. CHERNE'S ADDRESS IS
292 P ADISON AVE.

APPOINTMENT UNDER CASE 18945 X 18945 IS FOR SAME DAY AT 3 PM X 3 PM.
SUGGEST RAY MILLARD DROP BY THIS OFFICE AT 1:30 PM ON 26 X 26
JANUARY X AT 1:30 PM ON 26 JANUARY, BEFORE HIS MEETING WITH CHERNE.
PLEASE CONFIRM. 20

Melland adorned
an I will make aupt
of content fore
074451

***

14-00000
New Yark R. S. Travis 2268
SECRET

ERICANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVISWA 8456
CASES 9145 AND 18945. REUR ED NYOR 1191. MILLARD WILL MAKE APPOINTMENTS AS
SET UP BY YOU. HE WILL CHECK INDO THE OFFICE BY 1:00 PM ON THE 26TH. THANKS
VERY MUCH

SECRET
07458

***

14-00000
WA CITE NYOR 1351 SECRET

SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN 5 PM '58"

CASE 9145 X 9145

MILLARD HAD SUCCESSFUL MEETING WITH LEO CHERNE WHO AGREED TO PROPOSITION

MILLARD WILL DRAFT A LETTER FOR CHERNE WHICH WILL BE FORWARDED TO
28

07453

***

14-00000

SECHET
CS-1337 (Millard) 4 9145-RST
2 February 1956

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contact Division, 00
SUBJECT : Research Institute of America
1. On 26 January 1956, Mr. Millard of this office,
together with Er. Robert LicCann, New York 00/C Office, inter-
viewed Mr. Leo Cherne of the above captioned organization.
2. The results of this meeting were extremely satis-
factory for our purposes and we are deeply appreciative of
Er. McCann's assistance in this matter.
3. Your cooperation is appreciated.
Jokn Southard

07454

***

14-00000
TRAPT

Dear
I am happy to know that you are agreeable to assisting
on a continuing basis as set out in your recent communication.
However, this letter is being prepared to formalize our under
standing and to make it a matter of record.

Effective April 1, 1956, you are appointed a Research
Consultant for a period of two years with an annual salary of
$5,000.00.
i
07455

***

14-00000

SECRET
CS-1337 (Millard)
2 February 1956
NUGGET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Robert McCann
New York 00/C Office
SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

1. Attached is a suggested draft of the proposed Letter of Under-
standing between Hr. Cherne and his special employee.

2. In addition to the two paragraphs set out in the draft, it is
suggested that Er. Cherne also include either: (a) a brief general state-
sant of the duties and responsibilities or (b) a statement indicating that
the employee will continue the agreed-upon functions.

3. Another paragraph Eight be inserted with: reference t the
employee's past satisfactory performance.

4. For Mr. Cherne's information, the employee has had another arti-
cle published in the New Leader which was issued on 23 January 1956,
under the title "Poujedists".

5. We appreciate your and Er. Cherne's courtesy and cooperation in
this matter.
Raymond Willard
Contral Cover wanch
Non-Official Cover

Attachment
As stated above
REM: dmw
cc: C3-1337

SECRET
07456
1

***

14-00000

SECRET
CS-1337 (Millard)
2 February 1956 9145-RST
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contact Division, 00
SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

This is confirm the verbal concurrence given to Mr.
Millard on 2 February 1956 by Mr. Travis for the hand-
carry of the original of the attached memorandum to Mr.
Robert LicCann, New York 00/C Office.
Attachment As stated above

Fred for
Chief, CCB/NC
07457

***

14-00000

15 Fob 56
Wachington R. 8. Travis 2268
SECRET

MCCANH FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS)W 4789
CASE 9145. MULLARI WONDERS IF YOU HAVE HAD ANY SUCCESS IN OBTAIN CHERNE'S
SIGNATURE OF THE LETTER FORWARDED TO YOU IN DRAFT FORM ON 2 FEB? WOULD
APPRECIATE YOUR COMMENTS. THANKS.

SECRET

07458

***

14-00000

SEC SECRET
UA CITE NYOR 1685 FEB 16 3 54 PH 56
SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN

CASE 9145 X 9145.

CHERNE HAS WRITTEN AND DISPATCHED THE LETTER.

WE HAVE COPY OF THE LETTER HERE, WHICH APPROXIMATES PROPOSED DRAFT
BY MILLARD.

17 Feb56
Milland add

07459

***

14-00000

2 March 56
Fashington
Yark
2

MCCANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 035O
CASE 9145. MER MILLANE ADVISES THAT COPY OF LETTER WRITTEN BY CHERNE WAS
SENT TO HEADQUARTERS ABOUT TWO WERKS AGO. LETTER WAS NOT RECEIVED. YOUR NYOR
1685 INDICATED THAT YOU HAD COPY, BUT NO RECORD HERR OF EXERSKINEX
A COPY EVER COMING TO HEADQUARTERS. WILL YOU PLEASE FORWARD COPY. THANKS VERY
MUCH

SECRET
07460

***

14-00000
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Chief, Contact Division
Attn: Support (Travis)
DATE: 5 March 1956

FROM : Chief, New York Office
SUBJECT: Case 9145 pst
WA 0350 69.28 1505

1. We mistakenly advised Mr. Raymond Millard, last week,
that we had forwarded to your division a copy of the
letter which Leo Cherne had dispatched to Mr.:
2. As you pointed out in your WA 0350 we merely
avised you that we had a copy and did not forward it
to Headquarters.

3. Attached you will find a replica of the letter written by
Mr. Cherne.

R.W.McCann:er
Attachment Charles A. Lea
7 harks 6
07461

***

14-00000
titur
CS-1337. Core9145
Me Carm
Cheine is aware that our toy
writing for a mogazine
Samb forts of
Hower the
named
editor of this magazing is going
If the aur where our man es
Witting.
Copatid, but is not

Theo vnay kion edelor and with
poing to telf Editor that herwin's
writing.

***

14-00000
to and other
1. In the event that the
Editor knows hes, and showed
see keo and mention betes agent
and the writing writing rele relationship, Cheus
is wait to identify the agent with CIA
of
to
Boy will sud in
repot
he conversition with Editor
that of necessary
he advised of it
Keo Churne

***

14-00000
14 Bept XXX56
Washington R. S. Travis 2268
Secret
New York

NOCANH FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 8598
CASE 9145. RAY MILLARD HAS REQUESTED THAT YOU EHK PASS SOME INFORMATION ON ΤΟ
LEO CHERNE. XXXXXX YOU KNOW, AS DOES CHERNE, THAT XXXX OUR MAN WHO IS DOING
WORK FOR LEO, HAS ALSO BEEN WRITING FOR THE NEW LEADER, AS WELL AS EXHER DOING
OTHER JOBS. IT IS UNDERSTOOD THAT THE EDITOR OF THE "NEN LEADER", S. LEVITAS,
IS GOING TO TAKE A TRIP TO THE AREA WHERE OUR BOY IS LOCATED, AND WILL SEE HIM.
WHEN OUR BOY SEES LEVITAS, HE IS GOING TO TELL HIM THAT HE DOES SOME WORK FOR
LEO CHERNE, AND OTHERS, BESIDES SUBMITTING ARTICLES FOR THE NEW LEADER". HE WILL NOT
OF COURSE, IDENTIFY HINSEIP WITH THE AGENCY. LEVITAS IS UNWITTING OF ANY AGENCY
RELATIONSHIP, AND IT IS DESIRED THAT IT HE KEPT THIS WAY. ON THE OFF CHANCE THAT
CHERNE MAY KNOW LEVITAS, AND I ON THE FURTHER CHANCE THAT UPON HIS RETURN TO THE
US, LEVITAS MAY SEE CHERNE AND TELL HIM THAT HE RAN INTO CUR BOYEK WHO INDICATED
THAT HE WAS DOING SOME WORK FOR CHERNE, WILL YOU TELL CHERNE THAT LEVITAS IS NOT
WITTING OF THE FACT THAT THE HUEX BOY IS CONNECTED WITH THE AGENCY AND THAT HE
SHOULD NOT INDICATE TO LEVITAS, XXXX OR ASSUME THAT LENTAS KNOWS THE AGENCY
RELATIONSHIP. THANKS VERY MUCH,

SECRET
07462

***

14-00000

SEC

WA CITE NYOR 4854
SUPPORT FROM MOCANN SECRET
SEP 20

CASE 9145 X 9145
1. ON 19 X 19 SEPTEMBER WE ADVISED LEO CHERNE X LEO CHERNE OF THE
CONTENTS OF YOUR WA-8598 X 8598. CHERNE, AS IT TURNED OUT, KNOWS
S. LEVITAS X S. LEVITAS AND CONSIDERS HIM TO BE A VERY HIGH-TYPE,
PATRIOTIC INDIVIDUAL.

WE EXPLAINED TO CHERNE THAT LEVITAS WOULD NOX NO DOUBT SEE OUR
MAN ABROAD AND CAUTIONED CHERNE THAT HE SHOULD NOT X NOT ASSUME THAT
LEVITA KEW OF ANY RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE MAN INVOLVED AND THE
AGENCY. CHERNE REPLIED THAT HE WOULD IN NO X NO WAY INDICATE THAT
SUCH A RELATIONSHIP EXISTED.
ور

RAY MILLARD X RAY MILLARD WAS INFORMED DURING HIS VISIT TO
NEW YORK THAT CHERNE HAD BEEN GO ADVISED.
SECRET
20/17247

07463

***

14-00000
PRIORITY SECRET SENSITIVE
PP ESE
DE ESG 81
P1313412
GR180

BY
TVAVN
246473/23
46473/23
PRIORITY

SEC
WACITE NYOR 6845
THIS IS SENSITIVE

CASE 9145 X 9145
THIS IS IN REFERENCE TO A REQUEST MILLARD X MILLARD OF COVER DIV.
MADE TO LEA X LEA IN KRITING CONCERNING THE FEAR OF OUR AGENT IN PARIS
THAT HIS COVER MAY HAVE BEEN BLOWN BY HIS SISTER, MEETING MR. SOSEPH
LEICHY JOSEPH ARDLEICH OF THE RESEARCH INSTITUTE AND TELLING HIM
THAT HER BROTHER WAS IN PARIS WORKING FOR SAID INSTITUTE.

CHERNE X CHERNE WAS APPRAISED OF THE SITUATION ON 14 X 14 FEBRUARY
AND HE REQUESTS THE FOLLOWING:
Feb 18 11 16 AM '57

07464

***

14-00000
0.6
PLEASE ADVISE HIM OF THE NAME OF THE SISTER WHO MET MR. ARDLEIGH.
(WE ASSUME FROM THE GIST OF HIS QUESTION THAT HE WANTS TO BE
ABSOLUTELY SURE WHICH AGENT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT