14-00000

104-10100-10034 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

 BAL
6153
21 NOV. 63

C
080-130-47

10 MULTI - ADDRESSES CABLE SER BELOW

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI SAS 3

INFO CC, C/DC, DDP, ADDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, EE 4, WE 3,
NE 4, CE 6, WH 7 (POUCH FRAN 9 BONN 5, BRLN 5, MUNI 5.)
ATHE 6, ALL OTHER BTA'S 3)

15-20 15-13 15-8
20 MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE 15-21 TE DR
85387
PERUMEN (ZRPRIMA
++ 99
LOND PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC OSLO MADR
[ SOME ]

CABLE SEC: (IPLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH 99)

FRAN FROB BONN HAMB BRLN MUNI VIEN ATHE

BERN GNVA CAIR BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP

HRID SAGO BONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA

QUIT GUAT SNTO HELS TOKY HONG WAVE BARC

HELS LISB MILA OTTA TRIE 99

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

14-00000
ORIGD. RONIS:jd-
SAS/FOR
EXT 6153
DATE 21 NOV, 63

INDEX
NO INDEX
SECRET
FILE IN OS FILE NO. 200-120-47
TO CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI

INFO:

TO MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE INFO CITE DIR 85387
02
PERUMEN (ZR)PRIMA

REF: DIR 22218 *

1. RECENTLY CONCLUDED HOS REVIEW OF (ZR)PRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS
THAT KUDAR EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND
CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED. MAIN REASON
FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM
FIDEL'S
2
HAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE WHEY MEASURED AGAIN/ORIGINAL
OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE. THOUGH OUR
FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY
CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRM
ABOUT TEN WERE HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUBARK
SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECES INTO THE
VARIOUS BIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT
APPROVAL FROM HAVA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS
DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTEY AND FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC
INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS CONT...
SECRET AUTHENTICATING
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
16318

14-00000

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN OS FILE NO.
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF
INFO:
PAGE TWO
ROUTINE
INFO CITE DIR 85387

AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTER ST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO
HIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EAEROE FRON OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN
PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACE OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO
APPLICATIONS, LOBU DELAY IN GETTING LORD BACK FRON HAVANA AND
SMALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY HIRED, LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN
INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FRON HAVA, WHICH RUNS
SIX TO NINE MONTHS, HAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS WHO VERE
INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOX OTHER
JOBS.

-MISH STREES
3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE
TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR (ZRPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION
INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY
WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS
TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE PAIR
NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE
TO RIVE NEELS
ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR
02
TO (GEPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URARD 10 cat
ALERT FOR SICH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT THEM IN SAME HANNER
ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.
RELEASING COORDINATING OFFICERS CONT...
AUTHENTICATIN
OFFIGER
PEPRODUCTION STO BLUET SUING OFACE BETICAL
16318

14-00000
CON
0.
TO
PAGE THREE
INFO
ROUTINE
CITE DIR 85387
3
IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT MOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE
FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF
APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY
ACCEPTALLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION
CR REJECT IT.
4. RESPONSE OF MOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING (ZEPRIMA HAS
BEEN MOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY
QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECENICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED
UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO ACCEPT. KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE
EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT
ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS MARELY REFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION
AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT, FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS.

5. DISCONTINUE USE USA (ZAPA PRIMA SLUG AND FILE 200-120-47.

END OF MESSAGE
CIS COMMENT. Cahia pre-dates CS files. Copy may be seen in GIA
reference file.

MELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
16318

14-00000
FROM: DIRECTOR
INFO

VILLIY O'RTAR
PAGE JOUR
INFO
CITE 85387

SAS/BOB
SAS/NOB Berr
WE/S BC Loebe
cros me hele
لمعلوا لنا میں
Cillingill

CAZAS

16318
