14-00000

104-10221-10022 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
F12.79.00

Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)
16 March 1971

WERBELL, Mitchell Livingston, III - Revocation of DOD Security
#27686 Clearance/Recent Contact
M001-056-71

1. The information reported in the enclosed self-explanatory
memorandum, regarding Subject's self-initiated contact with our
Miami Field Office, may be of interest.

2. The Office of the General Counsel and I Division have
been apprised of Subject's recent activities.

3. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be
directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

SECURITY

WILLIAM J. VAUGHAN

Enclosure: As stated above

VThorne:grv

```
14-00000
```

SECRET

V. Thorne
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(John McConnell
+ John Creany (OGC))
Chief, Miami Field Office

Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III
MIM-056-71
10 March 1971
B

1. On 9 Mar 71 we received a long distance call, presumably from Powder
Springs, Georgia, from subject, who is an old and unsavory contact of this
office dating from 1959. Werbell has been involved in a variety of scrapes,
the latest of which concerned an abortive invasion of Haiti which John Creany
was very much concerned about a year or so ago.

2. Werbell stated that the Department of Defense had just revoked his
security clearance on grounds of Werbell's "frivolous behavior" in the Haitian
caper. Werbell stated that he intended to "fight it to the Supreme Court", as
he had always kept us and other elements of the US Government informed con-
cerning developments in the Haitian matter.

3. Werbell asked if there was anything that we could do for him in the
way of interceding for him with the DOD, and we informed him bluntly and in
no uncertain terms that he was strictly on his own, and we could do nothing
for him. He then asked if it would be worthwhile to subpoena Bart Gonzales
We informed him that it was up to his attorney to make such recommendations.

4. Werbell seemed to get the message, and then offered to keep us advised
regarding an alleged forthcoming attempt on Haiti which is being sponsored by
Rolando Masferrer, even though Masferrer is currently incarcerated in a Federal
prison. We told Werbell that if he wished to pass any information along we
would accept it but under no circumstances should he attempt to elicit any
information on our behalf. He agreed that he would operate on this basis and
said he might be in touch with us again.

5. In view of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should
be a matter of record and that OCC should be informed of developments.

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

VTC/caa: Mrs. Thorne - 3/15

SECRET
4.51

```
14-00000
```

CONFIDENTIAL

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE 5 July 1967
12-79.00

TO : Director, Domestic Contact Service

SURJECT: WERBELL, Mitchell Livingston III
FILE NO: #27686
#127900

1. Reference is made to your request for security checks on the subject
person as a source of intelligence information.

2. This is to inform you that the necessary, checks have been completed with
the following results:

a. 	No additional information has been obtained, except for such
	biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment
b.	Information has been received that Subject was investigated with
	favorable results in

c.	Certain information has been received and appears in the attach-
	ment which your Division will wish to consider in determining
	the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying
Information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be dis-
closed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different
name, this Division should be notified immediately.

Attachment:
State Passport Report
Summary

RESTRICTED

EYES ONLY
+4227
WILLIAM R. KOSH
Chief, Personnel Security Division

CONFIDENTIAL
4.45

19-471

```
14-00000
```

CONFIDENTIAL

WERBELL, Mitchell L.
#27 086

26 April 1967

On 19 April 1967, the current passport file of Mitchell L. WERBELL
was reviewed at the Passport Office, Departmentof State. The following
is a summary of the information contained therein:

Birth: C March 1918 at hiladelphia, Pennsylvania
(Verified by birth certificate)

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida, on 29 May 1962, Passport Number
C-301433, for a two week trip to England and Germany
for the purpose of business.

Residencer PD #1, Powder Springs, Georgia
Occupation: Public Relations and Advertising
Executive.

SUBJECT's file also reveals that the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion has information pertaining to SUBJECT concerning his involvement
in Haitian Revolutionary activities.

FLR/me

CONFIDENTIAL
4.45

```
14-00000
```

Chief, MIAMI FIELD OFFICE

TO

FROM

SID JECT

DATE 31 July 1967

Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Services Division)
Security Check Completion -- LS Citizen

(a) DCS R 10-30, dated 1 July 1965
(b) Operations Memo 80-64
Ataached is a notice of security check completion on the individual
listed below. The approved Subject's exploitation as a source of intellig
pics sudoration, but to the level of c
fed that we do not disclose clnasified information which may be 41-
ts info to you diseretion.

2. As Indicated in the attachment, the Os provided a summary of derogatory
lonetion for you to caustier in deteralaing the
I will be forwarded by Services Division by an "Eyes Cily" beciorundum which will
containing mumber Identeel to the one maried on the lower left corner
ccpletion, Fleaso use this number to identify s summery with an individual

3. The  directs that the field chief, after reading the information,
tish the level of classified disclosure, if cy; and to
Ravide guidance to the Contact Specialist in his relations with the nource.
Ite, at his discretine draclose the nature of the derogatory information
The Contact Detalist. The field chief, after making an appropriate
Anton in the ups files of the office with respect to the security status
u the lividual, vill thân either dsatrcy the formation or place the
t
led unvelope which will carry the envant: "To be opened by the Caler
A Chief Field Office."

JAMES R. AER

Archent:
WERBELL, MITCHELL Lavy

Sly 4227

Vleraripat
CLASSIFICATION: "Restricted" -No Classified Info
to be revealed. Check with Mr. Gleichauf before
contacting.

Justin F. Gleichauf

Lauf
GROUP I.
Excluded from automatic
dongrail al
declassification
4.45

```
14-00000
```

SECRET
F12.79-00

ATT
Chief, Personnel Security Division, 08
: Mr. Leland Bunn

Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)
WERBALL, Mitchell L.
A-127900
21 February 1967

Recent Telephone Call from Chet GRAY
of Los Angeles re Possible Assassination
in US of Close Relative of Middle East
Ruler

1. The enclosed copy of teletype from cur. Miami Fold Office
is forvarded for your information and irmediate transmittal to the
ИВІ.

2. Nr. John McConnell, of this Office, has discusses تملف
matter with it. . Cam Papich, FBI, who said the Fil will contact Sub-
Jeet and GRAY, and will subsequently advise us of any nction they
wight want us to tako.

3. Any questions pertaining to think vondun should &
directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, 2738 או.

SECRET

B. FRASK YOUNG

Paclosure: Telotype Contacts/Miami-1710
bted February 1967

Vihorne: pat

```
14-00000
```

6857
CC-FBI Via OS

SECRET

SECRET 201530Z CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710
CONTACTS/WASHINGTON
ATTN: MCCONNELL
FROM: GLEICHAUF

file
FcB 20 11 58 AM 167

1. WE HAVE RECEIVED A MOST UNUSUAL PHONE CALL FROM MITCHELL
WERBELL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, DETAILS OF WHICH FOLLOW,

2. WERBELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WHO HAS BEEN IN
OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH THIS OFFICE, OF HIS OWN VOLITION, SINCE 1959.
WHILE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, MUCH OF THE INFORMATION HE HAS
FURNISHED HAS PROVED TRUE. HE FURNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS ON THE
RECENT HAITIAN INVASION PLAN. THE PHONE CALL WAS RECEIVED BY BART
GONZALES FROM HIM AT 1100 HOURS ON 18 FEBRUARY. HE STATED THAT HE HAD
JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL FROM CHET GRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO ADDRESS
(PHONE 274-4922).

3. GRAY STATED THAT HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE
POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION IN THE U.S. OF A CLOSE RELATIVE, POSSIBLY
A BROTHER OR SON, OF A MIDDLE-EAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT 10 DAYS.
HE DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR BY WHOM
HE WAS APPROACHED. GRAY TOLD WERBELL THAT HE DID NOT WANT
TO GET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL

4.44
```
14-00000
```

SECURITY

PAGE 2 CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710 SECRET

REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED WERBELL FOR ADVICE. WER
BELL ADVISED GRAY

TO INFORM THE FBI IN LOS ANGELES, BUT GRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.
WERBELL THEN ASKED GRAY IF HE WOULD BE WILLING TO TALK WITH A
MEMBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGREED. WERBELL TOLD GRAY THAT IF A
REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACTED HIM, WERBELL'S NAME WOULD BЕ
USED AS ENTREE.

4. THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS,"
BUT I DID MEET A CHET GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S
HOUSE IN 1962, SOME DETAILS OF WHICH ARE CONTAINED IN OOA(S)5621
AND OOA(S) 5598 DATED 18 DEC 62. GRAY IS A NOTORIOUS HOODLUM
AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE BEEN APPROACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

54. PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SEE FIT.

SECRET
BT
Sam Papich says
Estudios beanic:

FBI Will TRESBET To therby
and gray- Will advise Fally

pectarescation

action. They want us To Tolke

```
14-00000
```

ATT
REF
Chief, Personnel Security Division, 08
Mr. Lolond Dunn
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Bervices Division)
VERERLL, Mitchell L.
A127700
12-77-00

Comcamication from Chet CGRAY
το Alleged Assassination Attempt
Against Foreign Diplomat -
Interest

DC3 sancrandum dated 21 February 1967, uane mub joct
24 Pobruary 1967

1. Floace forward a copy of the enclosed self-explanatory
Itea to kr. Sem Papich Mr. Popich was vos informed of thie
Diary It
Eatter by phone on 23 February 1967.

2. Any questione pertaining to this sorandies should be
directed to krs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

Amelesure As stated above
CC ir. Sem Fapich
D. FRAEK YOUNG

14.43

VThorne: pat

```
14-00000
```

DELY, 23 February 1967

SUBJECT: Mitchell Worbell/Chat Cray

Gleichauf called to say that Werbeil had heard from Gray bel pecerlay
and the day before cosessing concern over the fact that was
hin concerning the alleged accubation attempt arafast a foreta شتوية
Cray stated that unless he hered from como maiately to wat
Covernor of California, 23 February. Tato infomation was passed to San Pagich
by phone.

co: Chief, Miami Office

JMcConnolling

SECURITY

4:43
```
14-00000
```

24 FEB 1967
Miami (Gonzales)
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
BIOGRAPHIC DATA

SUBJECT: LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME
Corant
WERBELL, Mitchell L.

ALIASES
A 127900

PAR 48267

8. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
8 Varch 1918-Philadelphia, Pa.
4. SEX B. CITIZENSHIP
Male US

1.  FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP

FROM
TO
RESIDENCED fincluding No.. and Street, Lond, F.D...etc.)
COMPLETE ADDRESS

Present
Powder Springs, Georgia

CORFFROUZO.

EMPLOYMEN
FANM
10
HAME OF EMPLOYER
COMPLETE AODRED

Present
Lender of Organization to Connet
Companion
Powder Springs, Georgia

?
?
Alexis, Inc.
Atlanta, Georgia

?
?
Cool koof of Georgia, Inc.
Atlanta, Georgia

?
Werbell-South, Inc.
Atlanta, Georgia
?
EDUCATION (Iligh school, college, gratbok, nici

FROM
10
NAME.OP SCHOOL
DEGAKE COR MAJOR

10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA CE PARENTS AND CHILDREN.
POR 150 LE PREVIous
....
..10-6
ΕΠΙΓΙΟΝ
CONTREURO

CONTROUZD
27 FEB 196

4.4.2
CONTROVED
```
14-00000
```

SECTET

MITCHEL L. MERRELL
Powder Springs, Coorgia

BUSINESS
A-12-79-00
```
14-00000
```

CIRS-0422/79
10.10

MEMORA DUM FOR: Maurice Aern
Chief, PPL Group

ATTENTION: Lee E. Carle

ROMS George L. Marling
Chief, Operations Croup

SUBJECT: Request for records Search
Robert John Wirgan, et al. (0)

REFERENCE: OGC 79-08601 dated 20 September 1979

1. As intensive search of the files and Indices of
the Directorate of Operations has revealed no in format fon.
concerning Robert John MORGAS, Jolin Duncan LEIBOLT
Hübert Stewart COTT COTTON, John Sylvester CARPENTER, Wayne
Ernest DANTED, or Guy Perilton B. (6)

2. το
However, this search has revealed the following
information concerning Wiley S Shirore SIMS ( (AKA: William
Gilmore SAMAS) and Mitchell Livingston WERBELE II (AΚΑ:
Mitch THREE). (1)

William Cilmore SIMS

1) In December 1965 51MMS contacted the United
States Entassy in Port of Spain. Trinidad, and talked to
tative of this birent..
assistance in retrieving an airplane impounded by
authorities in Venezucia which they suspected was used in
smuggling operations. SIMIS also statoil that ho had been
in Guatemala jooking for air freight business.
The files
of this Directorate contain no indication that any action
WAR
as taken regarding this matter.

2) SIMMS was never a loyed by this Di Directorate
ever had any ope perational
ner has this pirbetartee interest in him, (U)

: Bitchell Livingstch WERBELL HT

1) WERDEEL has never been employed by this
Agency for does this Arency have any operational interest
in him.
SEREELL Was a commissioned officer with the oss
during World War II and served in the China-Burma-India
```
14-00000
```

theater. In August of 1959, this Agency considered using
WERRELL AS a source of information on revolutionary
activities in the Caribbean area, particularly Cuba, but
terminated its consideration of his possible use in
October 1959 when it was determined that his information
was of little value and it was suspected that he would
use the proposed connection with this Agency to promote
his personal interests.(S)

employees
2(1973 תז WERBELL was under investigation by
the United States Treasury Department Bureau of Neohol,
Tobacco and Firearms and by the United States Customs
Service for activities s relating to poss ssible mercenar
activities on Apace Island in the nahuhs. In this
connection, WERBELL.contacted three retired Cla
during 1974 in an an attorn attempt to involve them encina in scheme
concerning the activites of an organization called the
Friends of Abaco (FOA) which advocated the secession of
the island from the Corumonwealth of the Bahamas. Alt
threw individuals reported their contact with WERBELL.and
sought quidance from this ency
Ja May shin June of
1974 they were advised to break all ties with WIRBELL.
On 27 June 1974 the Foderal Bureau of Investigation wis
formally apprised of WERBELL'S overtures to the three
retired CIA employees. (5)

3. It has been determined that Mitchell Livingston
WERBELL HI is the subject of PA request number
P76-0028. There is no indication that Hitchell Livingston
WERBELL IIt has ever been the subject of an FOLA request
or that the remaining individuals listed in reference
have ever been the subject of an FOIA or PA request.
(U)

George L. Marling
OG/EIR:Bless/Coreaner/ran:6347
BASED ON: 201-250910
George L. Marling.
(14Nov79)
FILE IN: 201-250910 Mitchell Livingston WERBELI LII
Distribution:

Orig Addressee w/ref.
i OG/EIR W/ref.
1 OG/EIR Chrono

:
```
14-00000
```

OGC 79-08601-
20 September 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR:
ISA/DIP/IP/FIS
Associate Deputy Director for Administration
Attn: Chief, Security Analysis Croup, OS
Associate Deputy Director for Science &
Technology

Associate Deputy Director for Operations
Attn:
Thru: C/Reference Branch/ISS/IPG

FROM: John K. Greancy
General Counsel

SUBJECT: Request for Records Search -
Robert John Morgan, et al.

1. The Department of Justice is currently engaged
in an investigation with state and federal law enforcement
agencica concerning importation and distribution of mari-
juana and cocaine. Attached is a copy of the Department's-
letter to se reonesting verification by CIA of any employmu
or other involvement with certain of the subjects of this
investigation.

2. the Department's request,
In order to respond to
it would be appreciated if your offices could determine
if there are any records on the subjects listed in the
attached, letter from the Justice Department..

Attachment
Licancy
John K.
Creaney
```
14-00000
```

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

Ad
WLM:mas

Organized Crime Strike Force
Richard B. Russell Federal Bldg.
Post Office Box 543
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
September 17, 1979

Mr. John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Greaney:

It was a pleasure to meet with you and Clyde Carter
last Monday.

As I explained to you at that time, we are engaged
in an investigation with state and federal law enforcement
agencies concerning importation and distribution of mari-
juana and cocaine. During the course of this investigation,
allegations (unfounded, I am sure) have been made that
certain of the subjects of this investigation are employees
of the Central Intelligence Agency.

I believe it is necessary to resolve as much in
advance of an indictment any problems which may arise
should any of the subjects of the investigation be involved
with the Central Intelligence Agency.

The following individuals are among the subjects
of this inves Investigation

Robers John Horgan - POR: 3,16/36
John Duncan Leilott pen: 1/25/24
Bubert Stewart Cotton 209: 11,12/23
John Sylvester. Carpenter - DOB: 1/27/35
Filey Gilmore Sims.- DOB: 11/5/18
Mitchell Livingston perten, nu 3/8/18
Mayne Echest Daniel DOB:2/13/10
```
14-00000
```

Mr. Greancy -2- Soptember 17, 1979

Please advise as soon as possible if indictment or
continued investigation of these individuals will create
problems for the Central Intelligence Agency.

Sincerely,

cc: Robert L. Keuche. William L. McCulley
Special Attorney
U. S. Dept. of Justice

Deputy Asst. Attorney General
Criminal Division

Cerard T.. McGuire
Deputy Chief
Organized Crime & Racketeering Section
Criminal Division

```
14-00000
```

CONFIDENTIAL"

FBI reports extracted from Werbell file (DCD) :

FBI report dated 6 August 1974 from Washington, FBI file
(CI-3) 62-108665, SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III,
INTERNAL SECRUITY - ABACO, NEUTRALITY MATTERS ABACO.

CCCCC FEBRICK Creeport dated 22 July 1974 from Atlanta, Georgia, no
Bureau file, Subject: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III.

CONFIDENTIAL

```
14-00000
```

MEMORANDUM FOR: D20/ISS/IP/EIS
DCD-11-2/78
31 January 1978

FROM Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO

SUBJECT House Select Committee on Assassinations:
(IISCA) Request (OLC 77-5685/4)

REFERENCE Your Memorandum, Same Subject, 28 December 1977

1. In response to referenced request, I am forwarding
the following material from DCD files:

a. Dan Carswell one memorandum which may
relate to the individual you requested.

b. Louis Posada negative.

c. Cesario Diosada copies of all material in
DCD files.

d. Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III file
A-12-79-00, containing alt DCD material.
This file is on loan and should be returned
to DCD as soon as possible. PLEASE HAND CARRY.

e. David Atlee Phillips negative.

f. Lucien Conein one document. (This document
was also furnished in response to Conein's
request (P 77-08051 under the Privacy Act.)

g. William Stuckey negative.

h. Ed Butter copies of all material in DCD
fires.

E2 INPDET CL BY 386990
```
14-00000
```

DCD-112778
31 January 1973

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations (ISCA)
Request (OLC 77-5635/4)

F. Priscilla Johnson McMillan -- DCD response to
her request (P 76-1801] under the Privacy Act
Full text and sanitized copies of all this
material should be available from IPS. Also
attached are four intelligence information
reports which were not furnished in response
to the PA request.

j. Richard Snyder -- one memorandum which may
relate to the individual in whom you are
interested.

k. Alexis Davison negative.

2. I have made no attempt to sanitize this material.
I understand that IISCA staff members who will be examining
these documents are fully cleared, and will not be allowed
to remove any of this material from our Headquarters, make
any copies of this material, or make any notes therefrom
that would reveal any material that is properly classified
and deals with intelligence sources and methods. All of the
attached material is for your retention except file A-12-79-00.

3. Please direct further inquiries about this matter
to the undersigned on extension 3767.

Quch Elliff
Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

RELLIFF:wfc
Distribution
Orig $.1 Addressee, w/atts
1 -C/DC, wo/atts
1 C/Staff A, wo/atts
3 RELLIES
11 Control
2

```
14-00000
```

WARCR
7.
verinci prem AER - tru

Garritable
Far

de stree in Miami
Dast is suuny li

dragged into lansit - works for
Anolirion
3136292
A 8161
CONFIDENTI A L. 092000Z SEP 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/MIAMI 13596

TO: PRIORITY DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

TO: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (SPILMAN) FROM HENNESSEY

WNINTEL

SUBJI FIELD OFFICE ASSISTANCE TO 060

REF: SPILMAN/MAINWARING TELECON, 9 SEPTEMBER 1975, SAME SUBJECT

1. IN RESPONSE TO A TELEPHONE CALL FROM DEPUTY CHIEF, OCD, ON
23 AUGUST 1975, NE MADE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA,
FOR WALTER LLOYD, OGC, FOR THE NIGHT OF 23 AUGUST, THE NAME FIELD
OFFICE WAS HELD OPEN THAT EVENING FOR A NESTENS ATTENDED BY MR. LLOYD,
SAMUEL SHERES, US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND NOLLIAM WARNER, US DRUG
ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION. JACK HENNESSEY, DODAMIANI, ALSO ATTENDED
AND PROVIDED A SHORT GENERAL BRIEFING ON DOD OPERATIONS. FOR THE MOST
PART, THE MEETING CONSISTED OF A DISCUSSION OF THE PAST RELATICESHIP
OF MITCHELL L. VERSELL III WITH BKHERALD, ESPECIALLY WITH DOO AS
REVEALED IN THE DOD MEMORANDUM TO OGO DATED 2 MARCH 1975.

2. WE WERE ADVISED BY TELEPHONE DURING THE EVENING OF 27 ANGUST
BY A. THOMANN, OCD DUTY OFFICER, AND SUBSEQUENTLY SY WALTER LLOYD,
THAT LLOYD WOULD VISIT MIAMI AGAIN ON 30 ALGUST IN CONNECTION WITH
THE WERSELL CASE, LLOYD DID NOT TASK DODANEAME IN ANY WAY DURING
THIS VISIT. HOWEVER, HE DID CHECK IN WITH US LOCALLY BY TELEPΜΟΙΣ
UPON ARRIVAL IN THE MIAMI AREA. HE CALLED US AGAIN DURING THE EVENING
OF SI ADSUST AFTER HIS RETURN FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON, D.C., AS A
COURTESY SINCE HE DID NOT HAVE THE TIME TO CONTACT US PRIOR TO HIS
DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI.

3. MR. LLOYD AGAIN RETURNED TO MIAMI, TRES TINE ONOARDGAF
JET STAR AIRCRAFT, EARLY ON THE MORNING OF 2 SEPTEMBER. HE CONTACTED
US THAT AFTERNOON SY TELEPHONE TO REAGEST THAT SE KEEP OPEN THE FIS
OFFICE SO THAT HE COULD DEPOSIT CLASSIFIED FILES IN OUR VAULT OVER-
NIGHT. HE APPEARED AT THE FIELD OFFICE AT 113 HOURS AND BRIEFED
```
14-00000-
:
PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 13506 CONFIDENTIAL

US ON HIS TRAVEL OF THE DAY. HE PLACED TWO FOLDERS OF CLASSIFIED
MATERIAL IN OUR VAULT FOR THE NIGHT, AND RECLAIMED THEM ON THE
FOLLOWING MORNING, 3 SEPTEMBER. IN ADDITION TO MAKING WORKING SPACE
AVAILABLE TO LLOYD FOR A COUPLE OF HOURS DURING THE MORNING OF 3.
SEPTEMBER, WE MADE CURSELVES AVAILABLE FOR ANY FURTHER ASSISTANCE
THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN REQUIRED THAT DAY. HOWEVER, NOTHING FURTHER
HAS REQUESTED OF US. THE LOCAL OS OFFICE PROVIDED AN ESCORT FOR
LLOYD'S RETURN COMMERCIAL FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON LATER THAT AFTERNOON.
LLOYD ADVISED US IN THE MEANTIME, HOWEVER, THAT THE LOCAL JUDGE
HANDLING THE WERBELL CASE ASKED FOR LLOYD TO APPEAR IN MIAMI AGAIN
DURING THE FOLLOWING WEEK, WHICH APPARENTLY BECAME UNNECESSARY SINCE
WERBELL AND HIS CO-DEFENDANTS WERE ACQUITTED OF ALL CHARGES BY THE
JURY ON 3 SEPTEMBER.

4. AFTER RECEIVING TWO OR THREE FELEPHONE CALLS FROM MR. SHERES,
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, MIAMI, ON 25 AUGUST, DURING WHICH HE ASKED
FOR BKHERALD INFORMATION HELD IN BEHERALD HEADQUARTERS FILES, US
SUGGESTED THAT HE CALL LLOYD DIRECTLY AT HIS OGC OFFICE. WE BELIEVE
THAT THE ATTEMPTED USE OF DCD/MIAMI AS A CHANNEL BY SHERES STEMMED
FROM THE SEEMING (TO HIM) EXPEDIENT NATURE OF SUCH AN ARRANGEMENT AS
MUCH AS FROM A PASIC MISUNDERSTANDING OF BKHERALD'S CHAIN OF COMMAND
AND INFORMATION FLOW STRUCTURE. NEVERTHELESS, NO SUBSTANTIAL
DIFFICULTIES DEVELOPED DURING THE VISITS TO DCD/MIAMI BY LLOYD.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668
CONFIDENTIAL

:*
```
14-00000
```

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Watts

Attached is all the material DCD has on
Werbel. He has been the subject of several
communications between DCD's FIO/PIC staff
and OGC and the FIO staff in the DD0.

Also attached is the microfilm-records on
ana Arnold A. Bayard. I don't think he
is the Colonel Bayard referred to in the
memo, but it is hard to tell since we don't
have any blo data on him.

4.54
101 REPLACES FORM 10V101
PHICH MAY BE USED.
(DATE)
```
14-00000
```

OGC 76-0844
24 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG
Chief, DCD
Chief, LA Division

SUBJECT Mitchell Livingston Werbel III

1. I was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that
Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on 29 March
in Miami, Florida. The charges relate to importing and distributing
quantities of marijuana. With Werbel's propensity to raise his past
affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate problems during this trial.
An additional problem is presented because Werbel is defended by Edwin
Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk in the B-26 case in
Buffalo, New York in 1966. It was Edwin Marger who subpoenaed the CIA
General Counsel as a defense witness.

2. The Justice Department has received information that a person
either currently or formerly affiliated with the CIA has been participating
in Werbel's meetings with his attorney. It would be appreciated if all
addressées could review their holdings on Werbel and determine if there
is any validity to any recent contacts with him. I would urge that instruc-
tions be sent to Miami that no, repeat no, contact with Werbel take place
between now and the beginning of the trial.

3. It would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary
of the various contacts Werbel has had with CIA in the past. Please chock
to see if you have any information on a Colonel Bayard who was killed in
Atlanta, Georgia during the summer of 1975. Bayard, reportedly an
associate of Werbel's, had previous contacts with the Agency. It would
be appreciated if your responses could be received by close of business
2 March.

in Treaney
Poln K. Greane
foclate General Counsel

4.54
```
14-00000
```

ARCIOLO A, BAYARD
1175 York Aναται
How York City, New York.

BUSINESS

Subjeet is president
thi

10977658. L. Bayard Company, I., Mallinlphia,
4.54

```
14-00000
```

21 OCT 1961

CONFIDENTIAL
INTERISTICE MEMORANDIDA
October 16

Chief, Contact Division. From Chier, Personnel Security Division, O

SUBJECT: A 42744

results
Pormation as thestorio of th the atractient.
Information
১১
which your Piston with when to
ont level of use of Subject.

eeeved ud appeare
viti wiek to caster in determining

7. It is to te nosed wat oibreek vere cute to the identity
Information you furatched or is a creatoshistor
thia Division should be coffins mettely.

031!
4.54
```
14-00000
```

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
BIOGRAPHIC DATA

SUBJECT: LASS NAME  FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
BAZA Armala

ALIASES
A
DA
AND PLACE
OP BINTIN
92744 21- Mentos, 9.3.
1113 VAR SEMES, DA City, B. 8.

2.2. Όταν, 3.
32145

nd toneri

חבי
```
14-00000
```

Canticl
CONFIDENTIAL

1 March 1976

MEMORANDUM : Chief, Washington
Chict, Biani

SUBJECT : Kitehall Livingaton Verbell Ilf

1. The attached remorandae vas prepared for Jolin Groaney, OCC,
sho requested a summary of our records on Mitchell... Herbell fit.
Herbell is to be tried in March 1976 in Florida on a charge of importing
narcotics, anticipates that Warbell rey clafs sose agency connection
bacanse be has