14-00000
104-10162-10247
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
r UNCLASSIFIED r INTERNAL
L USE ONLY ⎱⎱ CONFIDENTIAL r SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) CI Suspect

FROM: P Lapusta EXTENSION NO

DATE

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. C/SR/CI/I

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. P Lapusta

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

ROUTING DATE OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

*If your time permits, this is the second of the two cases
I discussed with you (spotted through ABAPLEE program).

I would be interested in your views as to his possible IS
involvement (and whether I may be all wet in feeling he is Soviet dispatched).

Do you see an illegal Support aspects to this case? Focukl
Phap usta

FORM
3-62 610 r SECRET r CONFIDENTIAL r INTERNAL r UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY

14-00000
SECRET

ER/O/AC-64-202
22 October 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Irving AMRON

1. Subject responded to the AEEXPLORE ad for a position as a Russian language linguist. As was requested of him, he provided the Forms 444, 89, autobiography, and photograph.

2. The undersigned established contact with Subject by phone on 2 September and arrangements were made to interview him on the following day. He was interviewed in the Undersigned's Philadelphia hotel room on 3 September 1964. The undersigned used the Paul Peters alias and DOD cover.

3. The following was obtained from AMRON during the interview:

a. Subject, of Jewish descent, was born in 1917 in the USA. Subject's father, whose original name had been

Philip AMRONIM

came to the USA in 1905/06 at the age of approximately 15. Philip AMRONIM's parents stemmed from the GONEL area. At the time of his emigration to the USA, he was accompanied by his mother (his father died sometime prior thereto), and by the following brothers and sisters: Lewis, Willy, Abe (who has since died), Moris, Minnie (now married to LAIKEN), Pearl, and Max. All of Subject's father's brothers except for Max, are butchers by occupation, including Subject's father. Max graduated from CCHY and became a structural engineer; he has an office on 43rd Street and his firm is called the Amron Associates.

b. Subject's mother, also of Jewish descent, came to the USA in 1911 (or 1913). Her older sister, Fannie, is married to (fnu) COHEN who is presently retired and living in Florida. Her sister, Ruth, married Max AMRON. Her brother, Hyman HORLIK, who arrived in the USA only in 1962, owns a liquor store in Bayonne, New Jersey. Subject's mother has another sister (fnu) who is presently living in Florida. Subject's mother has one brother who is still living in the USSR.

-5133
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-2-

c. At the time of Subject's birth, Subject's father was employed in the Brooklyn shipyards. However, he changed jobs frequently and was subsequently employed on a farm near New Brunswick, then in a shoe factory as a cutter, then as a butcher, and finally became active in a Jewish cooperative organization. As Subject's father became convinced that the future of the Jews was in Russia under Soviet Communism, in 1931 Subject's family left the USA for the USSR for Birobidzhan where Subject's father worked as an agronomist (he had sometime prior thereto graduated from the National Farm School in Bucks County, Pennsylvania).

d. According to Subject, his family returned to the USA in 1933; the motivating reason therefor was the ill health actually only some headaches of Subject's brother, Eugene. Subject alleges that, because they had retained their US citizen- ship, they experienced no problems either in leaving the USSR or in obtaining permission to return to the USA. Moreover, Subject's father allegedly did not like life in the USSR; however, Subject's mother and sister insisted that they return to the USSR after only a brief stay in the USA.

e. As a result, later in 1933 the entire AMRON family once again returned to the USSR. Again, Subject states that they had no problems in obtaining authorization from the Soviet government for this trip to the USSR. Upon their return to the USSR, they established themselves in Moscow where one Noah LONDON, a friend of the family and a construction engineer, took Subject's father "into his employ". Subject's father worked in this capacity, in the construction industry, from 1933 to 1936. Sometime after the 1936 purges began, Subject's father worked for Komsomolsk, a Moscow "panel board construction" outfit. In 1936 Subject's father also worked for the Paris Commune as a shoemaker. Subject's mother worked during this entire period as chief of a dining establishment in the school of foreign languages in Moscow.

f. Subject began his elementary education at the DeWitt Clinton School in the USA where he studied until 1931; he then studied in the Soviet secondary school in Khabarovsk, Birobidzhan, until 1933. In 1933 he again returned for one semester to the Dewitt Clinton School. Later in 1933 and 1934 he attended the Anglo-American School in Moscow where he completed his 8th grade of school. He then continued his studies from 1933 to 1936 in Public School #327 in the 24th Bauman Rayon. In 1936 he entered the Moscow Avtodorozhniy Institut where he studied on the civil engineering faculty, to be a highway engineer. He graduated in 1941 at which time he was sent to assist

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-3-

in the construction of an airdrome in Minsk, latter to the Polish station of Janow.

g. In 1937 Subject's mother was dismissed from her position and both she and Subject's father began to feel the pressure of the purges. Subject's father, allegedly by appealing to the then President KALININ, succeeded in again acquiring exit visas for them to the USA. Subject, who admits that he had become a "good Communist" by then had gotton thoroughly steeped" in the Communist philosophy, elected to remain behind in the USSR. An important consideration, he states, was his desire to complete his education which he was certain he would not be able to do in the USA for economic reasons.

h. According to Subject, his father never lost his American citizenship. Subject's mother, however, in 1936 applied for and obtained Soviet citizenship. Accordingly he actually acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" although he never applied for this in person; he alleges that although he was 18 years of age at the time, he was "granted" Soviet citizenship by virtue of his mother's application for her own citizenship.

i. Subject remained in Moscow prior to World War II. In April 1940 he married

Nina MOISEYIVA
a bookkeeper by profession,

who was the step-daughter of the well-known Major SEOGOLEV of the "Soviet Proleteriat Regiment". A son was born to them in June 1941. Although at this time Subject was assigned to the construction of aerodromes to support front line troops, he succeeded in pulling strings and in arranging a D/Y triy" to Moscow, ostensibly to visit the Geodetic Institute. Enroute back from Moscow to the front lines, Subject's train got bombed in Brest Litovsk on 22 June 1941 and as a result he was returned to Moscow on the same train via Baranovichi. According to Subject, he was then assigned to the Moscow Military District, to the Otdel Aerodromnoi Sluzhby, where he was placed in charge of a brigade of engineers, technicians and laborers who were engaged in building dummy air sites for camouflage purposes.

j. In August 1941 Subject states that he was permitted to return to school in order to receive his diploma which was granted him in October 1941. He was then assigned to the 22nd Voyenno-Dorozhaiy Otryad which was formed in Dmitrov but which was then assigned to Suzdal'. Subject states that he was not inducted into the Soviet military service allegedly because "engineers were needed" and

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

because, as a member of the MID, this was considered as equivalent to military service. Nonetheless, in response to my query, Subject admitted that this was unusual as his activities were a kind which were performed by old women particularly since during this period, from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soviet males were drafted into the Soviet army. During this period Subject lived in comparative ease, being assigned to Suzdal and Klin, and other towns. According to Subject, he wore an MID uniform but wore no insignia. He admitted that "favored treatment" was bestowed upon him and his family when the MID assisted him in evacuating his first wife and son from Moscow in August 1941 to beyond the Urals. (His son by his first wife reportedly died on 11 October 1943 of diabetes.)

k. In September 1942, Subject received an appointment to the Moscow 2nd Military Infantry Institute from which he graduated in June 1943 at which time he got the grade of Iria Lieut. of Soviet Infantry. In response to my query, Subject again admitted that this appointment was highly unusual as his background did not lend itself to this, as appointments were made out of the various military branches, and as this implied that, as a foreigner (American), he was fully and completely trusted by the Soviet punitive organs who had cleared him both for this training and the institute and for promotion to officer status in the Soviet Army.

1. Initially he was sent to Alatov on the Volga, then to Orel where ise was assigned to the front lines in August 1943. He was given a platoon of infantry troops in the 415th Infantry Division of the Soviet Central Front. However, in October 1943 he was wounded; he was hit in the left forehead by a German bullet. He was operated on in a field hospital and then transferred to a Moscow hospital after he had recovered sufficiently. He was reclassified after his recovery and found suitable to continue in military service with the limitation that he should not serve on the front lines (goden vtoroi stepeni).

n. Because the wound failed to heal completely (he has a very obvious scar, with approximately a 1" depression, on his forehead), he "asked" to be assigned to a warmer climate. The Soviet authorities, he states, complied and in January 1944 dispatched him to Tbilisi where he was placed in a special officer's camp; he was hospitalized again, tad osteomyelitis complications, and ultimately discharged from the Soviet military forces. However, Subject provided several contradictory stories as to the date of discharge which at various times he indicated occurred in May 1944, then in July 1944, and even in August 1944. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story bothered him as it was obvious to the undersigned that Subject had somewhere become confused in this aspect of his background.)

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-5-

n. Upon his discharge, he was returned to the Moscow area where he was placed in a rest home (although Subject admitted that there really existed no need for this as he had recovered already prior to his discharge). In continuing his narration, Subject indicated that the rest of his story "sounds very strange and unbelievable" but then averred that it was true. He states that, strange as it appears and despite the shortage of Soviet men at the time (1944) he could not "find" himself a job. He went to the MVD which did offer him a job in Veliki Luki on the highways with the SoyuzDorog-Proyekt; however, he was not given the job by the officials responsible for this. As a result, he appealed directly to the Minister of the MVD who "tried to intercede in Subject's behalf. Allegedly after he was given a full physical examination, be was told that he could not be assigned to the highway units for reasons which were not speise out to Subject.

o. Subject then "sought out" work with the Nauchniy Sovet with no luck. He ultimately obtained a job with the Moscow Sovet in the Moscow Soviet Senior Library (sic). in November 1944, at a salary of 900 rubles, Subject began working in the field of "information on municipal works-highway construction, architecture, sanitation, etc." His immediate supervisor vas (fnu) LIFEEDEV, the head of information department of the Pydro-Energy Project. Subject admitted, in reply to the undersigned's query, that his work was "unusual" for several reasons. First, he was paid a salary which was unusually high and out of line with his qualifications. Secondly, though paid a salary for a full-time job and position, he actuzily worked o a part-time basis and was able to come and go almost as he vished. His work also included working on abstracts and translations from English to Russian, primarily in the field of dams, dam construction, and hydraulics.

p. In June 1949 Subject states that he vas dismissed from the foregoing position after he was given the explanation that the flow of literature from the USA, which Subject was translating, had decreased. In actual fact, Subject states, he was being "purged" because he vas a Jev. Ee then found a job as a laboratory assistant in a concrete plant where he worked from July 1949 to 23 February 1950. Because he did not like that job, Subject states he wrote to Stalin personally as a result of which, within less than 4 weeks, he was offered 4-5 different jobs. The positicas vere offered to him by the Moscow Committee of the CP to whom "Stalin had forvarded the letter". In reply to my query, Subject admitted that he was not concerned that, by writing to Stalin, be would come to the attention of the Soviet punitive organs, MVD/MGB, which would undertake to investigate his case. Accordingly, on 1 April 1950 Subject was given a job as an

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-6-

engineer with the Bezman District Road Department where he worked until February 1955.

q. After he lost his job in 1949 with the Moscow Sovet, he states that his relations with his wife went from bad to worse and ultimately culinated first in a separation and latter in a divorce in 1950. In the meantime, he was already living with

Eugenia VOLSOVA

an empolyee and a teacher of forsenic medicine of the Moscow Medical Institute where she was studying for her PhD and where she was al = == 3 pathologist and and = 2 257 24 1950 or 1951. However, within less than one month of their carriage, Subject divorced her as he found out that she vas a "bad person" and because he "had fallen blindly in love" with her. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story disturbed him very much. He was wasure of himself, was vague on dates, details, specifics, names, etc. It was again obvious that Subject was less than frank and open about this aspect of his background. His narratica did not sound convincing to Subject himself when he began talking about "falling blindly in Love", etc.) In 1952 he began living with another woman,

Rose MINKINA,

whom he married only in late 1954 when their son was already well on the way. MINKINA's parents and family were very strongly opposed to the marriage because the parents held responsible party positions and because MINKINA's brother held a sensitive position with the Soviet electronics and aviation industries. A son was born to Subject and MINKINA on 5 April 1955.

r. In ca 1954 (dates vague) Subject entered the Institute of Marxism-Leninism and continued his studies for three or more years. Though he registered for the evening sessions, he devoted a good portion of his days to study. As a result, Subject again admitted to the undersigned that he actually was in a unique position of being able to do almost as he "wished and desired" although ostensibly he was a full-time employee of the Bauman District Road Department. While a student at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism, Subject and his wife began submitting applications for a visa to visit Subject's parents in the USA. In actual fact, Subject states, his real purpose in applying for the visa was to "defect" upon his arrival in the USA. In February 1955 Subject states that be was fired" from his job with the Bauman District because of "political unreliability". However, Subject admitted to the undersigned that the real reason for dismissal

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-7-

must have been otherwise as, had he actually been dismissed for "political unreliability", he would not have been able to continue his studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism.

s. Because Subject had communicated to his father, using "hidden phrases" in their letters to each other, about his wish to leave the USER, Subject's father arrived in the USSR in 1957 in order, Subject states, "to establish at first hand for himself" whether Subject really wished to "defect to the USA". Subject's father remained in the USSR for a total of 10 days. As a result of his father's visit, Subject changed his tactics and began to submit applications for "immigration" to the USA. As earlier, these applications vere all rejected; however, Subject states that he continued resubmitting them several times each year.

t. After he left the Bauman District place of employment in February 1955, Subject found work as a "free lance translator for the Moscow Torgovaya Palata. He earned ca 100 rubles per month translating English language material related to the iron and steel plant which was being designed by the USSR for erection in India. In January 1956 Subject found work as chief of the translations bureau of the Nauchno-Issledov.elriv Institut Ministerstva Mashino Stroyeniya; his functions consisted primarily of supervising the translation of English language manuals on technical equipment. Again, Subject admitted that his work was "unusual" as, in actual fact, he spent 1-2 days at work, spent the rest of his time at hose, and devoted most of his time and energy to the studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. His salary continued at 1100 rubles per month.

u. In August 1958 his work came to an end. Generally he provided a contardictory account in this respect. Initially he stated that the position had been eliminated but then changed this story to state that he resigned in August 1956 as he would have had to begla devoting his full time to the work. In any case, his resignation generally coincided with his completion of studies at the Institute of Marxisn-Leninism. Thereafter, and until his immigration to the USA in 1962, Subject held no full time job. Nonetheless, he states that he succeeded in earning no less than about 1100 rubles per month by working as a free lance translator for the Torgovaya Palata of Moscow. He turned over to the undersigned a sample of his translation efforts-see the attached book. In response to my query, Subject admitted that his work again vas of such a nature that he was a free agent, came and went as he pleased, and generally vas responsible to no one. Apparently in order to

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-8-

forestall any further discussions in this regard, Subject then stated that "if you are thinking that I cold have worked for the KGB at this time, then you are right because I had the time to do anything including engaging in intelligence activities". However, Subject then proceeded to deny that he had then or at any time, had any relationship with the KGB (or its predecessor organizations).

V. In July 1962 Subject's mother and father came to Moscow, this specifically for the purpose of getting Subject to return to the USA. They stayed in Moscow 4 212, for longer time the a letter to KEPISEY, to Nina PERUSECEVA, to ADZAUWEI, to the Supreme Soviet, to the and to other Soviet establish- ments in order to get Subject and his son permission for enigration to the USA. (Subject's wife, MININA, had died in 1961.) In August 1962, while vacationing in Sochi Subject ves sought out by the local Inturist office and apprised by the local militia office that, "in view of your father's strong appeals", the USSR had granted Subject and his son permission to leave the USSR. Upon his return to Moscow, Subject proceeded to the American Embassy where he was advised that he had not been granted an exit visa by the Soviets. As a result, Subject applied for izigration to the USA twice, once in the capacity of a Soviet citizen using his Soviet passport, and the second time in the capacity of an "American citizen".

VI. In September 1962 the application to travel to the USA as an "immigrant" was approved for him and his son. Therefore, without waiting to receive approval to travel under his clain of being an "American citizen", Subject left the USSR and entered the USA on his Soviet passport together with his son on 24 September 1962 via Idlewild. Upon his arrival in the SA, Subject imediately undertook action to have his "American citizenship" restored. This was initially denied as he had admitted that he had voted in the Soviet national elections. However, he then retained an attorney who appealed the case; the original decision was then reversed and both Subject and his son had their US citizenship restored to them. In the sumer of 1963, the reversal was based on Subject's claim that be had had no choice and vas, therefore, compelled to vote in the USSR national elections.

VII. Upon his arrival in the SA, Subject immediately applied for a position with the NIM, however, he was rejected as he was "state- less" at the time. He then accepted a position with Stelling, Lori- Wood, and Fan Suetendals, 26th Street, working on site-planning. His superviser, one Frank McGowan, then recommended Subject to the

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-9-

Blauvelt engineering firm for whom he worked from January 1963 through July 1964. In 1904 Subject fond work with Harold J. SALDEN, 60 Broad Street, Red Bank, New Jersey, as an engineer working on the planning and designing of sub-divisions, grading, construction developments, etc. Ris immediate superviser is the township engineer of Marlboro Township, New Jersey. Els present salary is $100.00 per month.

y. In April 1963 Subject married

Bella MINCBERG nee MILSTEIN

a Polish Jew who had come to the UEA from Poland in 1949. She has some har maritial age(s). Subject and his son nov live in the home of his present wife.

4. Comments and Assessment:

a. Subject speaks native English and passes for a middle class American. His Russian is likewise native.

b. According to Subject, his objective in life Low is to work for the US Government. Ee states that he has submitted Forms 57 to a number of the US Government agencies (he did not elaborate). In applying for the position under AIE, Subject asked for $10,000.00 per annum which is his asking price for a position with the US Government.

c. According to Subject, his present position is excellent with great potential for going into partnership as soon as he becomes a licensed engineer. However, he states that he is not interested in making money (despite his request for a $10,000.00 salary) but in "tight- ing Communisa" as an employee of the US Government.

d. Subject admitted that he was a firm and strong believer of Communism which, incidentally, was the reason why he remained behind in the USSR when his parents returned to the IEA in 1937. Ee states that he continued to be a firm believer of Communisa until approximately 1958/59 when he became "disenchanted with Communism". Subject denies that he was a member of the Komsomol or that he had to join the Communist Party, this despite the fact that he became an officer of the Soviet Army and despite the fact that he was accepted to staty at the Institute of Marxism-Leninist. Despite his alleged "disenchant- ment" with Communism, Subject spoke in flattering terms about life in the USSR, about the "democracy", about equal opportunities, about the excellent "educational system, et cetera. Subject aimitted that

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-10-

he had led almost a "charming existence" in the USER and that neither life in the USSR nor the Soviet authorities mistreated him.

e. According to Subject, be vas never arrested in the Soviet Union.

f. In reply to my query, Subject indicated that in 1958 the KGB tried to co-opt bin into reportinga fellow student at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Sovever, Subject states that he rejected the pitch. In reply to various queries which vere posed to him about the fellow-student (name allegedly nov forgotton), Subject states that he did render an unfavorable report on the person. Despite this, the particular Soviet was nitizerely assigned ebroed es an interpreter. Subject later heard that the Soviet worked and traveled both Japan and Itary.

g. In reply to a general query about life in the USSR, Subject indicated that life in the USER has made him into "an accomplished pre-varicator".

h. Subject was less than fluent in relating the story of his life to the undersigned. He made mistakes frepeatly, be contra- dicted himself, be altered dates to accomodate other aspects of is activities to correspond with shat he had mentioned earlier, etc. Also, Subject repeatedly tried to digress from relating his story into presenting his views of life; it was a chore to keep hôn on substantive matters relating to his own background.

i. Subject's brother, Eugene, is now employed as an engineer of the Freehell Township, New Jersey. Additionally, he has a private office in Rockland, New Jersey, called the Civil Engineer Associates.

j. Subject's account of how he acquired Soviet citizenship-- see above- is a very veal item in Subject's scry. He will have us believe that be got Soviet citizenship by default" as a result of his mother's application for Soviet citizenship for herself. he kinself admitted to the undersigned that this is illogical as his brother, Eugene, whose status vas no different from Subject's, never acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" though Subject did allegedly without any action whatever on his own part. Moreover, Subject adnitted that he was legally of age (15) by this time and no longer a dependent as a result of which he would have had to apply for a Soviet passport and for Soviet citizenship of his own free volition rather than through his mother.

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

-11-

k. Sject is aware that the story of his "imigration" to the USA is also weak. Ee tried to explain this away by stating that he "got cut by mistake", that he was permitted to go to hide the Soviet shame surrounding the Cuban crisis", that "someone had committed an error", etc. Ee admitted that there exists no other explanaatica as to why the Soviet goverment vould have permitted him to leave the USSR as, in the eyes of the Soviet goverment, be ves a full fledged and responsible Soviet citizer who had no genuine or legitimate clain to American citizenship. As a result, Subject is usually sensitive to this topic.

5. CONCLUSION:

a. In the opinion of the undersigned, Subject should not be considered for either ARSCREEN or AΞEXPLORE despite the fact both his English and Russian are native.

b. On the basis of the interview, the undersigned feels that Subject is less than frank and that be is prevaricating. Moreover, there exist imwerable items in Subject's tale which are indicative both that he worked as a recruited agent of the KGB (and its predecessor organizations, in the 11 and that he left the Kar caly through and with the intercession of the KGB.

6. It should be underscord that because of the unique and sensitive cover used by the undersigned, to attempt was made to resolve the various contradictions, to challenge Subject on any of his statements, or to pursue certain points of their logical conclusion. The foregoing vas obtained in the form of an interview and no real attempt could be made, given the cover, to delve nore deeply into the suspicious aspects of Subject's background.

Pieter Pikguntd
PETER P. KAPUSTA
Chief, SR/O/A

SECRET

ة المقدسة

14-00000
DO NOT SETS SPACE

7 CATE (Pill)
PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

July 5, 1964

1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable write "NA". Write "Un- known" ocly if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at end of foen in extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or complete forms will cot receive consideration.

3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will cerufy to their correctness. Carefa! completion of all applicable questions permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

SECTION! GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

2. AGE
  
A30
4. Е
6'00"

R7 NG
195

E. COLOR OF EVES
blue
T. SCARS Type and Locarn

7. COLOR OF HAIR
brown
I WALE
46

8. TYPE COMPLEAICA
light
3. SEX
 FEMALE
9. TYPE BUILD
heavy
Deep scar (1"x2") on left part of forehead

AR. CAMER 21515NG PHYSICAL FEATURES
Sone
26. Love. Some and County)
Long Branch, New Jersey

14. CJARENT ターニ
201-222-3592
17.KRES
Sone
15. CFFICE P-ONE NO. & EXT.
LE2-0700

13. PERMANENT ADDRESS(. Street City, Zece. State and
Co) AND FHUNEO.

260 Marshall Court, Long branch,
New Jersey. Tel:201-222-8592
16. LEGAL RESIDENCE Sere. Temstory or Country)
New Jersey
18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED
Hone

13. INCACATE DECOMSTANCES 'tum Lengtest Is UNDER HICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.
ΣΑ

O IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS and by ACEDONI).
HA
SECTION!! POSITION DATA

WOCATE THE TOFEC CORK OR POSITICS FICH YOU ARE APPLYING
Russian language linguist

MOCATE THE LOVEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE BALARY TOU #ILL 1. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT
ACCEPT own act be cansadered for er powth lower
GRONDCE sun 2 weeks after
$10,000 amaliy

4. INDICATE YOUR FILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL OTHER:

FREQUENTLY CONSTANTLY

YOCCASIONAL
3. INDICATE YOUR BILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS(C
XMASHINGTON DC

AIRMERE IN US OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL .S.
CERTAIN LOCATIONS CALY Specify):

6.INCOCATE HAT FESERVATIONS YOU BOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGT
Possibility of schooling for children

96-11
FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
٠١٠

14-00000
SECTION I
-2-
CITIZENSHIP

1. CATE OF BIRTH 2 PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
Dec.4,1917 Brooklyn, New fork

IRTH
4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIPED BY
MARRIAGE
OTHER (Specify):
7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE
HA
3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (CORgstry)
. S. A.
5. CATE NATURAL- ZED
6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.
KA

9. ISSUED AT (City, Stase, Country)
A
9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY
VES
20
NA

11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY. Haile I was living in Moscow, the Russian government considered me as a Russian citizen, even though I
had never handed in an application for Soviet citizenship. Due to this, and because I was in a rush to leave the country, I arrived xxx on a Soviet foreign passport. In the U. S. Embassy in Moscow I filled in si- zultaneously two applications for entry into the U. S. A. : one as an inzigrant and the other as an American citizen. I received a Jonquota -2(1) visa dated Sptexter 10, 1952. After arrival the Board of Appeals of the Dept. of State reinstated my native-born citizenship.

12. MAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENS
VES 13. GIVE PARTICULARS
NO

14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, SHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (Pet Papers, Etc.
IS. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN US
NA
16. ACHT OF ENTR SCOT OF WHAT COUNTRY
C. S. S. R.
19. DATE VISA ISSUED
  
Sept. 26, 1952

18. LAST US. VISA IND. Type, Place of lame)
A
K-2(1), scow, U. S. S. 3.
EDUCATION
Sept. 10, 1962

1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED
SECT ON I Ⅳ
LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE NO DEGREE
YBACHELOR'S DEGREE
GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE
DOCTOR'S DEGREE
ToanT BUSINESS. OR COMMERCIAL SETOOL GRADUATE
TOO YEARS COLLEGE CO LESS
1. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
P. S. 39

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-end-To

S DESPEE
2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
Bronx, . مت

4. GRADUATE
1928 to 1930
YVES
NO
3. HIGH SCHOOL
1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
No. 327

3.DATES ATTEο 1936
1934
1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
2. ADDRESS (Cory, Stare, Comary)
YES
Moscow, U. S. S. 3.
4. GRADUATE
2 ADDRESS (Caty. State, Coloury)
NO
NA
3. DATES ATTENDED (For-end-Tal
4. GRADUATE
NA
VES
NO
4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDΥ

NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR LINIVERSITY
SUBJECT
CATES ATTENDED
DEGREE REC'D CATE
REC'D
MAJOR MINOR FROM ٢٥ SEM OTH HOURS (Specity)
Moscow Automobile & Highway
Institute CB 1936 141 BS 1941
Hoscow,