14-00000
104-10105-10133
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL CONFID TIAL SECRET
US LY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Manuscript Submitted by David A. Phillips

FROM: EXTENSION
NO.
C/SS/SC RETURN TO CA
Exicionoun Dao Omiy
DATE Do Not Reprod

TO: (Officer designation, roam number, and DATE OFFICER'S DATE COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. Chief, EAB, Attached are the comments
Office of Security of Acting Chief, SOG,
regarding subject
2. manuscript. All three
3. comments fall within caveats
2) and 3) cited in your
4. Routing and Record Sheet.
5.
6. H.R. Keough
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 EDITIONS USE ONLY

---
DRAFT
7 Jan 76

Chapter XI

Page 10: Though Camp Perry has received much publicity, there
appears no good reason to confirm the use of this facility by the
Agency. Unless we plan on officially opening Camp Perry as a CIA
training facility, it should not be mentioned. (Check OTR)

Page 15: The "Phoenix Program" originated before William Colby
became DEPCORDS, COMUSMACV. Ambassador Komer started the program and
asked that Colby replace him as DEPCORDS so that there would be some
continuity in the effort to deal with criminal elements of the Viet
Cong infrastructure. It is unfair to subjectively state that the
"Operation Phoenix" was Colby's own albatross. Certainly Colby doesn't
believe this though he is receiving considerable flack from those who
would like others to believe that the whole program was one of assassina-
tion of which Colby, as head of the CIA, was in charge.

Page 39: We're still putting audio devices in coke bottles
these techniques and methods should not be discussed since we may very
--
all
well want to use them again in the future.
