104-10107-10195
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DANIEL FLORES

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

OGC 75-4191
13 November 1975

Personal and Confidential

The Honorable Barnard F. Jennings
Senior Judge, Circuit Court for
Fairfax County
4000 Chain Bridge Road
Fairfax, Virginia 22030

Dear Judge Jennings:

An employee of this Agency who falls within that special category
of employees that members of my office have previously discussed with
you has been summoned for jury duty at Circuit Courtroom #6, Fairfax
County Courthouse, commencing 17 November 1975. It is my understanding
that you believe such employees should not serve on a jury.

The employee is identified by a copy of his jury summons returned
under separate cover and, as previously agreed, we ask that this letter
and the name of the employee not be joined together. Mr. Edmund Cohen
of my office will be pleased to explain the circumstances further if you
desire. He can be reached at the following number: 351-5648.

We appreciate your efforts on our behalf.

Sincerely,

John S. Warner
General Counsel

OGC: ECohen: aam
Distribution:
Original - Addressee (delivered by courier 11/13/75)
JURY DUTY
1 - EC signature file
1 - Chrono

NOTE: Per GMBreneman's call to Mrs. Chesky,
Judge Jenning's secretary, Mr. Daniel Flores
has been excused from jury duty. Sandy called
Mr. Flores with this message.

Alyce 11/14/75

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
ONLY

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Daniel Flores - Jury Summons
EXTENSION
FROM: Frank Stewart 7720
OS/EAB DATE
7 NOV 75

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED
1. OGC 11/7/75 To 1.
7007- Request OGC action Re
attached.

11. OS/EAB
4E 33

FORM 610
3-62 EDITIONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED

TO: DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH
THRU: (Staff, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)
Chief LA/COG
Chief L Security
NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print or COMPONENT DATE
type) LA/COG
Daniel Flores GS-12
7 November 1975

ROOM NO. AND BLDG. PHONE
3D5325 7144
1. FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS
CONCERNED, DATES, LOCALE, ETC. (Refer to HR 10-7 before completing)

On 29 October 1975 I received a summons from the Circuit Court
of Fairfax County, Virginia to serve on jury duty beginning
17 November 1975 for two months.

I am presently(under Department of State cover (nominal). Request
Guidance.

2. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR 32

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS
MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF, DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD
SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING EMPLOYEE
DATE:
CONCUR: 11/7/75

SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL
FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED)
FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION
3-75
FORM 879 SE PRESS

OF VIRGINIA

TO:
- Flo, Daikin Dane

Pursuant to an order of the Circuit Court of Fairfax, Coumy, Virginia, received on
1979, YOU ARE HEREBY SUMMONED TO APPEAR for jury service for the
beginning at 8:30 AM on the 17thday of November 1975, in Circuit Courtroom

2nd floor, Fairfax County Courthouse, 4000 Chain Bride, Fairfax, Va 22000.

tions you may have will be answered when you pron Gat date. If any
-y precludes you from reporting as directed above, base call the Clerk of
office at 691-2227 or 691-2228. Any corresponde...ng to this summons
be directed to the Chief Circuit Court Judge of the County and not to the
Please clock your mileage from your home to turchouse and be prepared
rovide to the Clerk of Court your roundtrip bursement purposes.

SHERIFF
Co., Cities of
Church
