104-10291-10021 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REF.  SECRET DATE
       ATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OR CANCELLATION 13 APR 78
       OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP  SS NUMBER
       058-22-8472
    
TO:  CHIEF, CONTROL DIVISION, OP EMPLOYEE NUMBER
        59198
    CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION, OP ID CARD NUMBER
X CHIEF, PCS/CSS (OPERATING COMPONENT FOR ACTION)  
    ATTN: SUPPORT STAFF
    
    RETIREMENT (CIA)
    STAFF  OFFICIAL ESTABLISHED
X
  CONTRACT COVER  CANCELLED
      CUNIT FILE NO.
    STATUS  CONTINUED 2205

SUBJECT KENT, WILLIAM M

+
KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER (BLOCK RECORDS) X CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER (UNBLOCK RECORDS)

  BASIC COVER PROVIDED EFFECTIVE DATE: FOD EFFECTIVE DATE
  OPERATIONAL COVER PROVIDED FOR TDY OTHER (Specify)
FOR SUBMIT FORM 642 IMMEDIATELY TO CHANGE TELEPHONE SUBMIT FORM 642 IMMEDIATELY TO CHANGE TELEPHONE
  LIMITATION CATEGORY TO CATEGORY   LIMITATION CATEGORY TO CATEGORY
 (HR 20-7)  (HR 20-7)
FORM 3254 FORM 3254 W-2 TO BE ISSUED
(HHB 20-11) CIA W-2 TO BE ISSUED.
 
  
X SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOP ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS X CATEGORY I RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO COS
  COVER. (HR 240-100  (HHR 20-7)

SUBMIT FORM 1323 EAA. CATEGORY I X
RESPONSIBILITY. CHR 2 NA SUBMIT FORM 2688 FOR GEHA
  HOSPITALIZATION CARD.

              DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK
SUBMIT FORM 2688 THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN
              ON TOP OF FILE
REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY

Subject will be acknowledged as CIA for entire
period of employment and is not to reveal specific
places or locations of cover assignments.

OISTRIBUTION:
COFY 1 - CO/TRE OR CEO CONTROL
COPY 2 OPERATING COMPONENT
COPY 3-OS/SRD
CCPY 4-OC/DO/TFa
COFY S - CCS-FILE mg

    CHIEF OFFICIAL COVER
    NCH, CENTRAL COVER STAFF
    FORM1551 SE PREVIOUS ZOITION SECRET WN-SISM
4-77 E-2. IMPDET CL. BY: 021964
        (3-20-43)
        
        
  MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
  HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WILLIAM  KENT,
 OPF - 1959-64
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: all material outside of the
 1959-1964 period not copied.
         
DATE  DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFI

        
       
       
SECRET SECRET
REPRODUCTION MASTERS OR CANCELLATIO
         KSTOP

 Handle With BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE
  Care

SECRET
       
        
       
        
SECERT  BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE SECRET
 REPRODUCTION MASTERS
  Handle  With  Care
       
       
       
       
SECRET 611
SECURITY INFORMATION

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE OF: KENT, William
FROM: Office of the Personnel Director

1.  On 6 June 1952
this office arranged with National
Selective Service Headquarters
to have the above-named subject's active
duty orders cancelled. This action was taken because, due to his train-
ing and experience, it was felt that the subject would be of more service
to the United States as an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency
than he would be as a member of the Armed Forces.

2.  Should the subject resign or otherwise be separated from CIA,
please notify this office immediately in order that this cancellation
action may be revoked and the subject will be made a free agent.

      Gemge E. Melcon
       GEORGE E. MELCON
      Acting Personnel Director

For the Use of PD(C) or PD(0)
Office of the Fersonnel Director notified on
the subject has resigned or otherwise been separated from CL..
             that

(Signature)
SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET
I am aware of the fact that the Central Intelligence Agency,
by reason of the sensitive nature of its work, must observe very
strict security measures. I agree to honor the requests of CIA
relative to my epplication whether it be accepted or rejected. I
agroe not to inform anyone that I am being considered for a posi-
tion in CIA. If questioned directly, I will say that I have applied
for positions in various government agencies, and if pressed for an
answor will acknowledge that CIA is one of them but will attech no
particular significance to such application. I agree not to dis-
closo porsonnel procedures I have observed in CIA, I agree not to
discuss by name or otherwise, any individuals with whom I have
talked in the course of my application to CIA.

Signed: William M Kent
Date: Huly 14, 1951

SECRET
   CONFIDENTIAL

AREA KNOWLEDGE (RESIDENCE OR STUL

LANGUAGE FACILITY

EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATIONS (BE COMPLETE AND JUSTIFY DECISIONS, NOTE ANY UNFAVORABLE CIRCUMSTANCES.)
A tall thin bay, dark hair
lee He was a
Statt bes
Deut
a job
hair, brown eyes, allow
Statt best cover
athaugh he
has been warned by profers - that the
LI
inscours etc
as
Aalariced are Resmuted,
compared to proste industry. He appear
to be
yousof
ashi actually
Lhe young but wat as
is also wants entelle jorden type wock, Specko
flaunt
+ Blation and
Speisk
- has nocked
-
Latin Cunerica (El Salvad) and has graduated from
Latin temeritan
method
Starting Helang was
at a

15-7
FORMS GIVEN:
PHS
3000, but I los
MEDICAL
RESERVE
"
Therm
SIGN  E OF INTERVIEWER

CONFIDENTIAL

NAME CONFIDENTIAL FILE DATE
REPORT OF INTERVIEW 7/11/51
William Morris Kent REFERRED BY
HOME ADDRESS TELEPHONE PAGE
2448 Washington Ave, New York. 58,71.4. 86182
BUSINESS ADDRESS ADDRESS
DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH
NAME OF SPOUSE CITIZENSHIP HOW ACQUIREDI

Mar 29 Alle to 4. S. in 1939
DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP HOW ACQUIRED
SALARY REQUESTED NO. OF DEPENDENTS
INTERVIEWER
3000
EDUCATION (SCHOOLS, DEGREES, DATES, MAJORS, EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES)

MAJOR EMPLOYMENT HISTORY PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION, SPECIAL SKILLS, SALARY LEVELS

MILITARY OCCUPATION (RANK, SERIAL NO., DATES OF SERVICE, DUTIES AND AREAS)
4-A - pres. Melittiyhtire

0837-117 CONFIDENTIAL (4-11)

13 REPORT OF INTERVIEW
TO:  CED 12 July 195
VIA:
Name of Candidate William M. Kent
Position Considered for Admin Clerk tot-6 Office FD1 FD1
office FOT/050 Reviewer Eresham

Personal Dignified...  Natural... Oward...
appearance Well-groomed.... Clean... Wide-Awake......
    Impressive......   
Personality Persuasive......  Responsive X Steady....
 Importurbable...  S  venly..... 1
      Stolid...   athletic
Ordinary..    
 Athletic…. Significant.
    tranquil..
     Straight forward Exitable
  Modest. Cheerfu
Responsive X
Dominant    Roserved….   Evasive   
Complacent .  Confident  Coronited…
       Suba .ssivo...
Is education adequate? Yes (( ) Is language facility adequute? Yes (1) No ()
Area Kr.owledge Has lived and worked in Latin American Fluent. Spanish
and 4g Italian
Previous intelligence or related experienco Nove
Salary level raquested Lowest Sulary Acceptable
GENERAL RECOMMENDATION:
1. Candidate is not recommended for employment. Reasons:
2. Candidate is recommended for employment. Justification
Bakground
motivation, personalit
SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATION for employmenta
Position: Admin Clerk Branch (✓
 Div ion FO7/050
Location: Guayaquil, Ecuador
Salary Level: 3100. -55

RECOMENDAT TON as to potential value of candidate to the orgo ization in other
thun the position inmediately under consideration: After Suitable
training and field expo
 (Enter any ac
officer
experience subject may qualify as a porations
any additional remarks on reverse side.)
Nesham
Signature of Interviewer
       
SECRET
(When Filled In)
REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE
NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE) REQUEST NO. (1)
42055
POSITION TITLE REQUEST DAYK (8-11)
Ops Officer 23 June 1966
LOCATION ICITY, STATE: GOUNTRY? YEAR OF BIRTH (28-30)
New Orleans, La. 1929
POSITION NUMBER (83-30 GRADE (43-443
(1) OCCUP, CODE (87-48) GS-13
ASSIGNMENT (OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH) ORGN. CORK (45-48)
DDP/WH/JMPOPLAR-12
TYPE OF APPLICANT TYPE OF APP)(49)
REGULAR CONSULTANT X SE-SA
CONTRACT  MILITARY
CONVERSION ACTION REGULAR TERIOR OFFICIAL
IF OTHER, SPECIFY: Dow M. HAME OF REQUESTER IOR
Dow H. Luetscher, Chief/CPD b
CLEARANCE SECRET CLEARANCE (81) 
PROVISIONAL FOR (INDICATE NAME OF POOL OR GROUPI FULL  PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
ATTACHMENTS TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT AND FUNDS HDOTRS. & FUND (30)
PHOTOGRAPH(S)APPENDIXI HOS
MALE VETERAN APPENDIX) UEF
VETERANS STATUS MALE-NON-VETERAN
FEMALE-VETERAN
PEMALE NON-VETERAN
REQUEST FOR WAIVER RECRUIT. CODE (88-84)
REPORT OF INTERVIEW VET PREF. & sgx (86)
Security: 50514
Case Officer: Maurice Currie x6032
Clearance Memo to SA/Branch/CPD
Attn: Jo Ann Varney
5 E 69 x7170

SPACE BELOW FOR OS USE ONLY

FORM 377 USE PREVIQUE EDI NE SECRET MFG. 5-65
3-61 (9)
     
     
SECRET 
(When Filled In)
REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE REQ'JT ST NO. 11-61
73407
NAME (Lust-first-Middle 
REQUEST DATE 15-11 13-20 YEAR OF BIRTH (29-30)
POSITIONS TITLE 12-28  RECRUIT. RFON. NO. (31-33)
ASSIGNMENT (Office, Division, Branch) S1B SUB-CATEGORY CODE 1361
  REGULAR STAF
CONSULTANT
TYPE OF APPLICANT
CONTRACT TEME OF L'APP)37 043)
MILITARY RE-EMPLOY.MIL IF OTHER, SPECIFY C'CUP. CODE 137-42)
FEMALE VETERAN
YPE OF ASSIGNMENT AND FUNDS YES JOTHER Specify
ATTACHMENTS PHOTO (S) APPENDICIS
MALE VETERAN
VETERANS STATUS
SUMMER ONI,
THE CLEARANCE REQUIRED (5:1)
1 PROVISIONAL REQUEST FOR WAIVER FULL
 INVITES CLEARANCE RE
 INVITT CLEARANCE REQUESTED RECRUITER'S CODE (52-54)
OTHER
REMARKS:
AN FOR
REMARKS:1560419122
SPACE BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY OS ONLY
APPROVAL GRANTED
PROVISIONAL INVITER
THIS IS NOT A CLEARANCE FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, MATERIAL,
OR SECURE AREAS. A BUILDING BADGE OR AGENCY CREDENTIAL IS NOT TO BE
ISSUED AT THIS TIME.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY
DATE
CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION 19.
FORM3-67377 OLETE PRE VIQUE EDIT ONG SECRET
  
    "PAY AEJLSTIERT IN ACCERELACE WITH THE FREVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 CF
    TITLE 5. U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE CADER 1194] FLESLANT TO AUTHORITY EF
    OCI AS FERVICED IN THE CIL ACT OF 1945, AS AMEREFE, AND [C]
    CIRECTIVE EATED & CCTCREF 1582."

EFFECTIVE EATE OF FLY ADJUST A FAJ: 1C [ETEBER 1576

NEW MAFE SFFIEL CREN. FLAES GE-STEF AFN
SALAFY
KFAT WILLIAN 055158 37 325 ↓ 65 15 4 $37.167
       
       
SECRET 
(When Filled In)

GJCS 06/30/77 NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)
059198 KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT
4. EFFECTIVE DATE
MO
DA
YR
5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
V TO V V TO CF
05 23 77
FUNDS CF TO V CF TO CF
8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
6
8. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDO/CMS 7020 00080002
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
kash.. D.C.
11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER
CPS OFFICER O Cl FSE2
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, c 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP
GS 0136.01 15
18. REMARKS 17 SALARY OR RATE
7. FAN AND NSCA
13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
DYB

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
POSTED
27
PAA
FORAM 1:508 SECRET
8-72 MFG. 3-76 E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622
Use Previous (4-511
Edition

PLF 083077 SECRET
OCF (When Filled in)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2 NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)
059198 NENT WILLIAM
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4 EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REASSIGNMENT
DAYR
08 28 77 REGULAR
5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR 7. FAN AND NSCA VTOV TO OF CF TO CF
6. FUNDS
7. FAN AND NSCA VTOV TO OF CF TO CF 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY 7020 0008 0002
50 USC 403 J
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDO/OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS WASH., D.C.,
ASST DEP DIR-OPERATIONS/DEVELOPMENT
NON-OFFICIAL COVER STAFF
REFERRAL BRANCH
11. POSITICIN TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER
CPS OFFICER CH 1863
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE GS, LB. etc: 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP
GS 0136.01 15 4
18 REMARKS 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
DYB
117 SALARY OR RATE
37167
19. ACTION 20. Employ 21. OFFICE CODING 22 STATION
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
30125
CDOD 75013
 CODE Code

37
30 RETIREMENT DATA
REFERENCE
24
81 SEPARATION
 DATA CODE
24 Haars 25 DATE OF BIRTH
MO
10
DATA CODE
26 DATE OF GRADE
27 DATE OF LEAVE
D8
35
 CODE

23 INTEGREE 25 DATE OF BIRTH

30 RETIREMENT DATA CODE

31 SEPARATION
DATA CODE
27 DATE OF LEAVE
26
38 CAREER CATEGORY
PROV
22 STATION 39
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
OFFICE 44-M
COOING

02
23 INTEGREE 34
 ALPHABETIC

26
24 37
DOD 75013 31
M. 02 33 - DATA CODE
.17 34- 11
ALPHABETIC

15
40 16
11 17 20-164
B - 7
3
FE13-022 522. 25 802.28

 SIGNATUR
 7/8 24-2 55.5
" E2 IMPOET CL BY 007822
4-511
CODE ALPHABETIC
(11

85 4 CODE
41
2.41
40 COOC
POSTE ALPHABETIC

(75
FORM 172

FORM EXECUTEC

D2
Use Previous
SECRET
Edition
FORM 12
56-7

COA2 1
+ SERIAL NC1
2 4LWOP 3 ORGANIZATIC
KENT WILLIAM 50 125
52 19

5 OLD SALARY RATE 6 20- 8 GRADE
TYPE ACTION
LAST EFF. DATE  NEW 124 8888  NEW
GRADE STEP 9. REACTION 987
 PSI LS ADJ GS 1544 $39.789 05/23/76 52 15 5 $40.555 09/21/78
14 -
C80898 CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION88
CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE
AWH B Nim
 SIGNATURE
7/3/78 8CLERESINITIALS
FORM P 83361
 BP
USE B8RE PREVIOUS 1
 EDITION
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
A11, 637
PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERSC9
88LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
822 INITIALS
LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD4508744 - 14-513366

ALL
1,4
LC4 100 020

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305
OF TITLE 5 U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 12010 PURSUANT 10 AUTHORITY
OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND DCI
DIRECTIVE CATED 8 CCTOBER 1962,"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: OS OCTOBER 1977

NAME 10 NUMBER ORG. SCH-GR-STEP NEW
SALARY
KENT WILLIAM 0059158 CCDO GS 15 4 $39,789

8659
JLS 062878
SECRET
(When filled Inj
7-25-17
OEF NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
SERIAL NU ABED 2. NAME LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE
059198 KENT WILLIAM
 6 30 78 REGULAR
3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
RETIREMENT (INVOLUNTARY, LUNDER 'CTAORY OF EMPLOYMENT 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

AND CANCELLATION OF NSCA 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
7. FAN AND NSCA
V TO V CF TO V CF TO CF

DDO/OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS 8020 0008 0000 SECTION 235(A)
241670
 ASST DEP DIR-OPERATIONS/DEVELOPMENT
NON-OFFICIAL COVER STAFF
REFERRAL BRANCH
POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER
OPS OFFICER CH 14 CLASSIFLATION SCHEDULE (G5. WG etc) 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE
GS 0136.01 15 5 40995

WAS
2) Employ 21
SPACE BELOW
CODE
FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
10

29 SPECIAL
24 Hadars 25 DATE OF BIRTH
1
28 NTE EXPIRES
REFERENCE
30
RETIREMENT DATA CODE
2
L
DA 05 09 29
SEPARATION Correction ( uncellation Data
DATA CODE
33 SECURITY 34 SEX

4200
40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
30

A

CODE
D142 001
35 VET PREFERENCE 36 SERV COMP DATE
37 LONG COMP DATE
42 LEAVE CAI 43
FEDERAL TAX DAT

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
SECRET 38
(4-51)
Form

