124-10284-10172  2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/8/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10172

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-82352-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM >
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 10/27/1959
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: EPE, GONZALEZ, CARLOS HILARIO, SUSP, CONSPR,
MURDER, VENTURA, ESTEBAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1 14
NW 50953 DocId:32303660 Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)
FBI
Date: 10/27/59
Transmit the following in (Type in plain text or code)
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Via AIRTEL AIRMAIL DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
(Priority or Method of Mailing) INFORMATION
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERFIN 320/5 EXCEPT FOR
BRACKETS IN
.FR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105- )
CARLOS HILARIO GONZALEZ 8-1-97
IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA
CLASSIFIED BY SUDIK
DECLASSIFY ON: 25XY
(JFK)
Enclosed are 11 copies of a letterhead memorandum
concerning an alleged plot by the subject to kill ESTEBAN
VENTURA_NOVO. The source of the information in enclosed
CUBA memo is ANA ROSA GUERRA, who contacted this office on
10/24/59 and advised she works for BERNARD LABARKER, in
an undercovers capacity in CUBA, where she is employed as
ALBERTO BAYO COSGAYA, Chief of Air Fumigation-
Technical, Cuban Air Force. BAYO has been described as a
key figure in the Cuban Air Force and was described by GUERRA as
definitely a Communist BARKER advised SA JOHN R. BARRON
on 10/7/59 that he works for CIA in an undercover capacity
in Cuba. This memorandum is classified confidential to
protect the identity of GUERRAS who apparently is a CIA
source GUERRA returned to cuba on 10/26/59.

Information concerning the alleged plot against
VENTURA has been furnished to the Miami Police Department
and the Dade County Department of Public Safety. ESTEBAN
VENTURA will be advised that there is possibly a plot to
kill him but that no protection can be given him by this
Bureau.

- Bureau (AM) (Enc1-11) (RM) Classified by
Declassif. 9/27/77 DSC/
- Miami (2 - 105- CARLOS HILARIO GONZALEZ) for review at FBINQ by
(1 - 105-1715, Cuban Retailiation HSCAM reg 9/7/78
Against Batista Adherents) su file 62-117890
(1 - 105-1720, ESTEBAN VENTURI (
WBH:sll CIA, (information
CRAB State, AGENCY
REED OSTINS, of ante
DATE FORW. 11-2-57
HOW FORW.
BY
OCT 30 1959
Special Agent in Sent
47SS SECRET
M NAT. UNITASEC.
NW 50953 DocId:32303660 Page 2
