124-90137-10230 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10230

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-30972-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: NO

TITLE:

DATE: 09/23/1960
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
 PETROS MOUTSOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1 14
NW 50953 DocId:32337464 Page 1 (

1. Mr. Nasca
SECRET
SAC, New Orleans 9/23/60

Director, FBI 5(105-30972)-68 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
 DECOR,
EX- 105 RELEASE OF CONFORMATION
 PETROS MOUTSOS IN THIS DOCUMENT.
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING EXCEPT BRACLETS
(NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE) KP 11-17-97
 JM 6-23-98
The captioned individual was utilized by CIA as an
informant in the communist-dominated Greek Maritime Organization(5)
OENO. During the past year his usefulness to CIA has practically
expired, primarily because of the subject's desire to remove (5)
himself from the OENO atmosphere.

On September 13, 1960, CIA advised that the subject
is currently a crew member of the SS "Radnor," which is scheduled
to dock at New Orleans within the next two weeks. CIA has had
clandestine meetings with Moutsos and is endeavoring to work out(s)
an arrangement whereby he can travel to Cuba and serve as
source of information. 15 In order to arrange for such travel, it
will be necessary for Moutsos to jump ship in New Orleans. This
will be done with the approval of INS. CIA will then hold(5)
conferences with Moutsos and the subject will thereupon proceed
to Havana (under a cover being established for him(s)
Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutsos will endeavor to
establish contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who has a communist
background. This marriage was actually promoted in order to improve
subject's position in the OENO. The subject has been separated from
his wife for a lengthy period although she has indicated she desires
to live with the subject again. (CIA hopes that a resumption of(5)
relations between the two will help Moutsos in establishing worthwhile
contacts in communist circles in Cuba.(5)

This is being furnished for your information and under
no circumstances should any of this data be furnished to anyone
outside the Bureau. Any pertinent information received concerning
the subject should, of course, be promptly furnished to the Bureau.

1 New York (105-15613) 12-10-97
1 Baltimore (134-571)
Tolson CLASCIFIED BY 5648 SLO/RSP
Mohr
Parsons 1 100-398547 (Angela Boyer) DECLASSIFY ON:20
Belmont
Callahan
DeLoach (JFK) J
Malone VHN:wmt:kać
McGuire (7) 8/9/97
Rosen MAILED 25 Classified by 980
Tamm SEP 29 1960 SEP 2 3 1960 Decessity on Date 324,326
Trotter
W.C. Sullivan COMM-FBI
Tele. Room
Ingram SECRET (5648 SLO/GL-3/29/95-JFC)
Gandy MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

NW 50953 DocId:32337464 Page 2
