124-90158-10062 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90158-10062

RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-1924

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 01/31/1973
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: POLITICAL MATTERS
LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLE

HW 50953 DocId:32340405 Page 1

INTELLIGENCE
Intelligence Information Report
Classified by Recorded Reporting Officer. Exempt from General Declassification Schedule of E.0. 11652 exemption Category 3B (1), (2)
Impossible to determine date of automatic declasification.
DIRECTORATE OF
PLANS
COUNTRY
DÓI
SUBJECT
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
SECRET
Political Matters
Venezuela
8 December 1972
Reorganization of the Directorate
of the Service of Intelligence and
Prevention
Venezuela, Caracas (15 December
1972)
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00339-73

DATE DISTR. 31 January 1973

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 2-22-95 BY SPS MACIEH
FFK

FIELD NO. Chec-6525

SOURCES An experienced police investigator whose position gives him
access to information on matters affecting the internal
security of Venezuela. He reports without the knowledge of
his superiors. His information has been frequently con-
firmed by independent sources. He provided a copy of the
reorganization document.
1. On 8 December 1972 the Directorate of the Servi
of Intelligence and Prevention (DISIP) was as reorganized by its
Director, Dr. Remberto Uzcategui Bruzual.
(Source Comment: Uzcategui believes
DISIP will be in line for criticism during the election year
of 1973. and he wants to remove from positions a responsibility
any of his controversial section heads.) The gist of the
document issued by Uzcategui reorganizing DISIP follows.
2. The Director of DISIP sets the general policy based
on instructions from the Ministry of the Interior and has
ultimate control of the Services. The Deputy Director assists
him in carrying out these responsibilities and substitutes
for the Director during his absence. As its supervisory and
fiscal units, DISIP has an Inspector General of Services who
has the responsibility of disciplining personnel and investi-
gating employees, and an internal comptroller who verifies
the administration of the Services.
3. The followin
The following are the DISIP executive positions:
a. Secretary General of Services, which has been
assigned to Dr. Oswaldo Dominguez.

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CIM
(dissem controls)
NSA CRS
(For Field Distribution see final paragraph)

MAR 6 1973
LG 4237
XEROXED ORIGINAL-RETAIM
(classification)
STATE DIA FBI
XXX XXX
For reverect by
HSCARep. of 12/22/77

HW 50953 DocId:32340405 Page 2

CR
AUBOFREET RISSEM
FOREIGN
FEB 16. 12 44 PH 73
90158-10062
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
CSCI-316/00339-73
Directorate of the
Chief of the General Information Division,
which has been assigned to Lic. Joaquin Chaffardet.
109-12-226
REC-90

c. Chief of the General Operations Division,
which has been assigned to Commissioner Rodrigo Nieves
Zarco.
4.
1924
FEB 1973
The Chiefs of the Zones and other branches in the
interior are under the jurisdiction of the Secretary General
of Services. They will handle administrative matters,
intelligence and operations directly with the corresponding
Divisions and will receive from them the general requirements
to be fulfilled.
5. The General Operations Division has nationwide
It
responsibility for all police and operational matters.
will be formed by as many operating divisions as there are
specific activities to be fulfilled. The current operating
divisions are:
a. First Division (Prevention), headed by
Commissioner Adolfo Romero Gomez.
b. Second Division (Agent Control), headed by
sub-commissioner, Arpad Bang.
C. Third Division (Patrol), headed by Sub-Commissioner
Julio Cesar
d. Fourth Division (Explosives and Armaments.),
headed by Commissioner Luis Posada.
e. Fifth Division (Protection), headed by
Commissioner Luisarts Guerra
6. The General Information Division has nationwide
responsibility for all intelligence and counter-intelligence
matters, with the exception of subversion which is wholly the
responsibility of the General Operations Division. The General
Information Division will be formed by as many divisions as there
are specific activities to be fulfilled. Currently these are:
a. Eleventh Division, headed by Commissioner
Jose Vasquez Blanco
b. Twelfth Division (Archives and Analysis), headed
by Dr. Rafael Riva Vasquez
c. Thirteenth Division (USSR and Bloc Embassies),
headed by sub-commissioner Alejandro Nystor
7.. The Secretary General of Services has responsibility
for all administrative matters, including personnel and requests
for services, equipment and finances. He also has responsibility
for all matters not falling under the jurisdiction of the two
general divisions, and in particular for those related to the
Divisions of Personnel and Administration....
8. Field Dissem: Embassy at Caracas.

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NW 50953 DocId:32340405 Page 3
