124-90137-10067 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10067

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-30972-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO : LALLIER
TITLE:
DATE: 09/14/1960
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
PETROS MOUTSOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1 4
NW 50953 DocId:32337301 Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GO GONMENT
Memorandum

Tolson
Mohr
Parsons
Belmont
Callahan
De Loach
S

TO : Mr. L'Allier L SECRED DATE: September 14, 1960
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEOLASIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF INFORMATION

FROM : S. J. Papich 0 IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

SUBJECT: PETROS MOUTSOS
INTERNAL SECURITY - GREECE AND CUBA
ΚΡΗ 1747
Jm 6-23-98 Ballo

The subject was utilized by Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA) as an informant in the communist-dominated Greek Maritime Sdala
Organization, OENO His past activities have been the subject/
of correspondence between us and CIA. During the past year, this
usefulness to CIA had practically expired, primarily because of
subject's desire to remove himself from the OENO atmosphere (8)

On September 13, 1960, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised
that the subject is currently a crew member of the SS Radnor,
which is scheduled to dock at New Orleans within the next two
(5)
weeks. (CIA has had clandestine meetings with Moutos andis (5)
now endeavoring to work out an arrangement whereby he can travel to
Cuba and can serve as a source of information in that country. In
order to arrange for such travel, it will be necessary for Moutos
to jump ship at New Orleans. This will be done with the approval
approval (5)
(5) of Immigration and Naturalization Service. CIA will then hold
conferences with Moutos and subject will thereupon proceed to
Havana under a cover being established for him.J(5) him
ESIMETHIO

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutos will endeavor to
have contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who is well known to
us and who has a communist background. His marriage to Boyer
was actually promoted in order to improve his position in OENO
He has been separated from his wife for a lengthy period although
she has indicated that she desires to live with him again. CIA
hopes that a resumption of relations between the two will helps
Moutos in establishing worthwhile contacts in communist circles
in Cuba.
(4)

SJP: bass
Classified by/98034/el
1 - Mr. Donahoe
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich
REC-
Declassify: OAD 1,386
(268 Sup/GL-3/24/95-JFK)
105-30972-68
7 SEP 27 1960
12-10-97
CLASSIFIED BY 5468 510/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X
(JFK)

LET: New Orleans
9/23/60
UHN: wint teac
1- Baltimore 1- NYO
SECRED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE
HERBIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
NW 50953 DocId: 32337301 Page 2
