File #

62-116395

Serial Scope:

1320- Bulka

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW 88296 Date: 2023
62-

HQ -116395

Serial 1320 PT 2

62-HD-116395-E1320 PT 2

FBI - CENTRAL RECORDS CENTER

HQ - HEADQUARTERS

BOX 4254

Class / Case # Sub
Vol.
Serial #

0062 116395
1
1320
ONLY

2/13/100588

RRP004ZGA6
SSC REQUEST

December 18, 1975

ITEM 1 a.

b.

1/13/76 A's letter

This has been
abstracted
106

14-
SSC REQUEST
December 18, 1975

ITEM 1 b.
Incident # 69,11

question A
(Revised 2/24/75)

BLACK PANTHER PARTY

FORMERLY KNOWN AS THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY FOR SELF-DEFENSE
CHARACTERIZATION OF SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATION
EXTREMIST MATTER BLACK PANTHER PARTY

The Black Panther Party (BPP), organized in December,
1966, at Oakland, California, by Huey P. Newton and Bobby George
Seale, has the publicly-stated purpose of organizing black
people to take control of the life, politics and destiny of
the black community. The Party, operating the Black Panther
Intercommunal News Service, publishes a newspaper called
"The Black Panther," which at one time openly advocated the
use of guns and guerrilla tactics in a revolutionary program
to end the oppression of the black people but since early
1971 has spoken for a survival program pending revolution.
BPP national headquarters, aka Black Panther Intercom-
munal Headquarters, is located in Oakland, California.

While openly advocating direct overthrow of the
U. S. Government by force and violence until 1971, leaders
have since avoided extreme statements in favor of calling
for action within the established order. Newton, in an
interview appearing in the May, 1973, issue of "Playboy"
magazine, stated the Panthers' chief ambition is to change
the American Government by any means necessary but that
ultimately such change will be through armed violence.

Despite its claimed dedication to community service,
indicators of the BPP's continued attraction to violence persist.
Since July, 1974, Newton and other BPP members have been arrested
in Oakland, California, for threatening police officers,
murder of a 17-year-old female and the pistol whipping of
Newton's tailor. Newton failed to appear on these charges and
is now a local fugitive. Additionally, one died and three
were wounded as a result of a shooting at a BPP-sponsored
dance in Oakland, California, in October, 1974.
Svet 4-15
Couestion A
SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION

The Secret Army Organization (SAO) was clandestinely
formed during the Fall of 1971 in Arizona. Membership to date
has been small and it appears to have the same basic terets as.
the Minutemen. In fact, several of those involved in SAO
were formerly active in the Minutemen. The mail drop for
this organization reportedly is in care of an individual in
Ramona, California, who has been involved in Minutemen and
white-hate activities in the past.

This ultraconservative paramilitary organization
was recently involved in extremist activities in San Diego,
California. Members of this group reportedly made threatening
telephone calls to a local college professor who is active
in a group which plans to organize demonstrations at the
forthcoming Republican National Convention. Following these
telephone calls, a member of SAO fired shots from an auto-
mobile into the professor's home, wounding a guest.
Incident #21

Question
a.
(predication)
#IA
OPTIONAL FORM NO..10
MAY 1962 EDITION
CSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
UNITED STATES GOVONMENT
Memorandum
TO
:
DIRECTOR, FBI (157-6908)
FROM
SUBJECT:
:
SAK SAC, NEWARK (157-2011) (P)
FRANK AUGUST DRAGER, JR.
EM-WHITE ACTION MOVEMENT
00:
NEWARK
DATE:
4/15/74

5010-108
Re Newark teletype to Bureau 1/14/74; Bureau letter
to Newark 2/13/74; Springfield teletype to Bureau 3/8/74;
Springfield letter to Bureau 3/21/74.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of an LHM
dated and captioned as above. Enclosed is one LHM for each
receiving office for information purposes.

NK T-1 is PH 811-E
NK T-2 is an acquaintance-of-subject. M
ential sourc
objects confidentit
NK T-4 is an individual in the Dover Township PD Confidentia
LP 3373-E. inform

This investigation is based on information which
indicates the subject is possibly engaged in activities which
could involve a violation of Title 18, USC, Section 241 (Conspiracy
Against Rights of Citizens), Section 245 (Federally Protected
Activities), Civil Rights Act of 1968, or related Civil Rights
Statutes.

The subject claimed on 9/27/73 to be the acting
Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan.

It is recommended DRAGER be continued as a subject of
ADEX, inasmuch as he has since 9/12/73, been traveling the East
Coast claiming to be a Grand Dragon of the KKK and overall
coordinator for all right-wing organizations located on the
1cc62208
ENCLOSURE
② Bureau (Enc. 7):20
"
1-Cincinnati (Enc. 1) (Info)
1-Indianapolis (Enc. 1) (Info)
1-Kansas City (Enc. 1) (Info)
1-Miami (Enc. 1) (Info)
1-Philadelphia (Enc. 1) (Info)
1-Springfield (Enc. 1) (Info)
2-Newark
CFM/mla/jz
(10)

Ica cul
EX-115
157-6908-77
REC-10

4 APR 18 1974
1 co ISS
C
WD71pen
5-8-74
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly
on the Payroll Savings Plan
-NW 88296-Docld:32989574 Page 10
NK 157-2011

East Coast. The subject has twice been arrested for possession
of weapons since September, 1973, and has been in receipt of
white-hate extremist literature. DRAGER has shown a propensity
for violence in the past and has allegedly admitted participation
in a bombing. DRAGER has shown a willingness and capability to
engage in terrorism or other such acts which would result in the
interference with or a threat to the survival and effective
operation of National, State or local governments.

One copy of LHM being disseminated locally to
Secret Service, Newark.

of DRAGER.
Two copies of FD-376 attached, along with photograph

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

Newark in receipt of insufficient information to
characterize the American White Nationalist Party mentioned in
attached LHM,
2
Incident #22

Question A
سمار
LS 185-6
A

On September 6, 1974, detailed information developed
during Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigation
concerning the discovery of five (5) sticks of dynamite
inside the Meditation Room of the United Nations General Assembly
(UNGA) Building, New York, New York, on August 7, 1974,
was presented to a Federal Grand Jury (FGJ), Southern
District of New York (SDNY), New York, New York, which
subsequently returned a sealed true bill indictment against
MICHAEL HALSEY BROWN, 101 Cherry Road, Berea, Kentucky,
charging BROWN with violation Title 18, United States
Code, Sections 371 (Conspiracy), 112A (Attempt to Injure
Foreign Diplomat or Official Guest of the United States) and
970 (Protection of Foreign Diplomatic Establishments and Interna-
tional Organizations), on same date. Following the above
indictment, a bench warrant was issued for MICHAEL HALSEY
BROWN by United States District Court Judge WILLIAM
C. CONNOR, "SDNY, New York, New York, with $100,000 surety bond
recommended.

-
Ր
2
-
SSC REQUEST
December 18, 1975

ITEM 1 b.
•
for retention, SSC unit
Duis de
6519, 11
..
The following symbols were utilized to delineate
some of the agencies to which the FBI disseminated information.
These symbols are located on the bottom half of the first
page of each document disseminated.

ACSI - Army Intelligence
ONI
-
Naval Intelligence
OSI
-
Air Force Intelligence
DEPT (ISD, CRD, RAO, IDIV, CRIM, IDN)
ment of Justice
SS; SEC SER
NW 88296 Docld:32989574 Page 15
-
-
-
U. S. Depart-
Secret Service
3
Anaider+#q
9
Tousstion b.
D-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI
Date: 3/12/69
-Transmit the following in
(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Via
(Priority)
TO:
DIRECTOR, FBI (105-165706-41)*
'FROM: SAC, RICHMOND (105-5504) -P-

fow BLACK

BLACK PANTHER PARTY
RM

Re Richmond teletype to the Director and WFO
dated 2/27/69 and WFO teletype to the Director and Richmond
dated 2/28/69.

: Enclosed for Bureau dissemination are nine copies
of LHM re possible burglary of Hunter's Haven, aka Potomac
Arms at O Prince Street, Alexandria, Va., which is a gun
dealer firm. Dissemination being made via FD 342 to the
following:

116th MIG, Washington, D.C.
NISO, Washington, D.C.
OSI; Suitland Hall, Washington, D.C.
U. S. Secret Service, Washington, D.C.
Alcohol, Tobacco Tax Division, Washington, D.C.

Enclosed for the information of San Francisco and
WFO is one copy of LHM.

RAO! ISD, ERO, CRIM, IDIV;
SS. ACSI USI
Lu RS 2118169

806x3
HF/IEC

1
Bureau (Encl. 9) ENCLOSURE /グラ-165766
1
San Francisco (Encl. 1) (RM)
4
WFO (Encl. 1) (RM) (157-2159)
Richmond
(2-105-5504)
(1
(1
-

-
157-2304)
66-2521A)
RMC:skl (7)

Ր
LOMETE
17 MAR 17 1969

FAN
RACIUFINT. SENT.

Appropriec

ial Agent in Charge
Sent
M Per
☆
☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆
OLL
☆☆☆☆
☆
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Richmond, Virginia
March 12, 1969

BLACK PANTHER PARTY
INFORMATION CONCERNING

:

Information was received from Inspector Francis
Johnson, Alexandria, Virginia Police Department on February
27, 1969 to the effect that an unknown source of information
to the Alexandria, Virginia Police Department had recently
been approached by persons, which that source described as COULD IDENTIFY
Black Panther members, had requested the floor plans for
Hunter's Haven, also known as Potomac Arms, located at 0
Prince Street Alexandria, Virginia. This company conducts
business in the sale of firearms and ammunition.
SOURCE OF
OTHER LAW
ENFORCEMENT
AGENCY

The Alexandria, Virginia Police Department estab-
lished appropriate surveillance at this company, and an un-
known person was seen to cut through the cyclone fence ap-
proximately 7:30 P.M. on March 1, 1969, and thereafter crawl
under the building. An attempt was made by this individual
to saw a hole through the floor of the building, but the
would-be burglar was hampered in his sawing operation by guns
and cases, which obstructed his sawing as well as the cold
and water under the building. He was seen to depart through
the hole in the fence, which he then temporarily repaired.
He was not successful in gaining access to the building nor
in obtaining any weapons. No arrests were made, hoping that
accomplices would also be involved.

Inspector Johnson advised on March 3 and March 10,
1969 that the police have a "monitoring device" at the build-
ing, which will alert them at the police headquarters to any
unusual noises after working hours, inasmuch as they have
withdrawn their surveillance team. He stated that the source
of information is not a member of the Black Panthers, but
that the source continues to describe the burglars as such.

A characterization of the Black Panther Party is
attached hereto.

N
NW 88296 Docld:32989574 Page 18
105-1157

ENCLOSURE
BLACK PANTHER PARTY

According to its official newspaper, the Black Panther
Party (BPP) was started during December, 1966, in Oakland,
California, to organize black people so they can take control
of the life, politics, and the destiny of the black community.
It was organized by Bobby George Seale, BPP Chairman, and
Huey P. Newton, BPP Minister of Defense. Newton is presently
serving a sentence of 2 to 15 years on a conviction of man-,
slaughter in connection with the killing of an Oakland police
officer.

The official newspaper, "The Black Panther", which
further describes itself as the "Black Community News Service,"
states that the BPP advocates the use of guns and guerrilla
tactics in its revolutionary program to end oppression of the
black people. Residents of the black community are urged to
arm themselves against the police who are consistently re-
ferred to in the publication as "pigs" who should be killed.

"The Black Panther" issue of September 7, 1968,
contains an editorial by BPP Minister of Education, George
Mason Murray, which ends with the following:

"Black men. Black people, colored persons of
America, revolt everywhere! Arm yourselves. The only culture
worth keeping is a revolutionary culture. Change. Freedom
everywhere. Dynamite! Black Power. Use the gun. Kill the
pigs everywhere."

Included in the introduction to an article appear-
ing in the October 5, 1968, edition of "The Black Panther"
is the statement, "... we will not dissent from American
Government. We will overthrow it."

Issues of "The Black Panther" regularly contain
quotations from the writings of Chairman MAO Tse-tung of the
People's Republic of China and feature MAO's statement that
"political power grows out of the barrel of a gun."

The national headquarters of the BPP is located
at 3106 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley, California. Branches have
been established at various locations throughout the United
States.

2*
This document contains neither recommendchons por concu
of the FUI. Its the property of the 2. and is oan"
agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your
agency.
☆
☆
☆☆☆
****
In Reply, Please Refer so
File No.
UNITÉLATES DEPARTMENT OF JUST
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Richmond, Virginia
March 12, 1969

i
2
Title
BLACK PANTHER PARTY
INFORMATION CONCERNING

Reference
Richmond communication dated
and captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities
are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable
information in the past.
:
Incident #
6-11
Ginestion 6.
P-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)
Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via
,
FBI
Date:
11/12/68

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)
TO:
Director, FBI (105-165706 Sub 15)

FROM:
SAC, Detroit (157-3075) (P)
lec dinted & LHM

BLACK PANTHER PARTY (BPP)
DETROIT DIVISION
RM
00: Detroit
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE. 4-14-94 BY SPOMAC/EH
(JFK)

Re Detroit airtel to Bureau, dated 11/8/68,
captioned "DEVELOPMENT OF RACIAL INFORMANTS IN THE BLACK
PANTHER PARTY (BPP), RM, 00: SAN FRANCISCO".

and for
matter.
Enclosed for the Bureau are ll copies of an LHM
San Francisco two copies of an LHM regarding captioned
Two copies of the LHM are furnished Secret Service
and G-2
and one copy of the LHM is furnished the USA, all
Detroit, Michigan.

The Detroit Division has pending cases in regards
to LUKE TRIPP, LEONARD BROWN, VICTOR STEWART, MARIAN KRAMER,
JOHN WILLIAMS and LONNIE PEEKS. Vigorous investigation is
being conducted by the Detroit Division to ascertain all
background information in regard to the above subject and
Sif any allegiance is connected with the Black Panther Party
of San Francisco.
3
2
8
-
YLOSURE
Bureau (Enc.FIT) (RM)
San Francisco (157-1204) (Enc162) (RM)
Detroit
(1
-
157-
(1.- 157-2986
-
(1 157-
REC
(LUKE TRIPP)
105-165 706-151
(LEONARD BROWN)
(MARIAN KRAMER)
(VICTOR STEWART) 15 NOV 15 1968
157-2354 (JOHN WILLIAMS)
(LONNIE PEEKSA 12:30 11
-
(1 157-
SECTI
PATETORY

:
KERO

DEC 1908
.. ΟΙΑ
Sent
M Per

Special Agent in Charge
Approved:
1612

61 NOV 22.1968
DE 157-3075,
C

This matter is being pursued intensively by
the Detroit Office and contact is maintained on a daily
basis with the Intelligence Unit of the Michigan State
Police and the Special Investigations Bureau of the
Detroit Police Department, both having direct interest in
local black nationalist activities and conduct surveillances
in regard to key black nationalist figures in the Detroit
area. Racial informants, who are familiar with the black
nationalist activity in the Detroit area, are contacted often
in regard to an organized BPP in the Detroit area. Contact
with the above sources has revealed that no organized BPP
has been established in the Detroit area wherein the BPP is
holding regular scheduled meetings.

In the event any information is received to show
that a BPP is organized and meeting at a regularly scheduled
time, the Bureau and other appropriate offices will be
properly advised.

Sources utilized in the enclosed LHM are as follows:

Lt. WILLIAM MC COY, Special Investigations Bureau,
Detroit Police Department;

Detective GORDON HURLEY, Intelligence Unit,
Michigan State Police;

/ DE 1284-R (Prob);
DE 1286-R (Prob);

DE 1172-R;

CARL SIMPSON
Racial Informant-Probationary-Ghetto;

DE 1295-R (Prob-Ghetto)

The television program mentioned in the enclosed
LHM was viewed in its entirety by SA JAMES M. PAIGE of the
Detroit Division.

The enclosed LHM is classified confidential to
protect sources of continuing value.

-
2
-
evitavarata
Incident #22

Question A

MICR
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
1
DEPARTMENT

☆

☆
FEDERAL

☆
BUREAU OF INVES
☆
TIGATION
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Detroit, Michigan
November 12, 1968

CONETRENDIAL
4-14-
SPB MAC/EH
(JFK)
Re:
Black Panther Party (BPP)
Detroit Division

A characterization of the BPP is contained
in the appendix attached hereto.

Sources hereinafter referred to have furnished
reliable information in the past.

On November 11, 1968, from 7:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.,
WTVS Channel 56, a local educational television station in
the Detroit area, carried a program entitled, "Facts About
the Black Panther Party". The program was moderated by Lonnie
Peeks, a local black militant associated with the Student
Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC).

A characterization of the SNCC is contained
in the appendix attached hereto.

This was a panel type program with the following
persons, all from the Detroit area, appearing:

Lonnie Peeks
Luke Tripp

Leonard Brown
Victor Stewart
Marian Kramer.

Peeks advised that Marian Kramer was a replacement
for John Williams, who had another engagement.

CONT IDW
CROUTL
Eroluded from automatic
Joumgrading and dealassification:

ENCLOSUKE
105-165706-15-6
TOTAT
Re: Black Panther Party
Detroit Division

The panelists were introduced by the moderator
Lonnie Peeks with the following titles:

Luke Tripp
Deputy Minister of Information

Leonard Brown
Deputy Minister of Education

Victor Stewart
Deputy Chairman

Marian Kramer
No title

Luke Tripp stated that the Black Panther Party is
not a party that adheres to violence but is geared towards
political education for the black people. Tripp stated that
the Black Panther Party is running Eldridge Cleaver, leader
of the BPP in San Francisco, California, for the presidency
of the United States in Michigan. Cleaver is being sponsored
by the New Politics Party. Tripp stated that the BPP is not
interested in seeking or getting votes, rather it is concerned
with presenting its program for revolution to the American
people. Tripp stated that social turmoil as manifested by
George Wallace, youth rebellions and riots in the streets,
can be blamed on power being in the hands of the establishment
and not in the hands of the people where it belongs. Tripp
stated that the black economic, political and social condition
as opposed to the condition of the whites is far below normal.
The system has as its basis a cast system based on race.
is the relationship of the oppressor and the oppressed, superior
to the inferior. Tripp stated that socially the black man
is unable to control his destiny. School, police and welfare
are all in the hands of the white people and the black people
must grasp for what is left.

It
Tripp further stated the BPP has a ten point program
that is geared towards elevating the black people out of the
slums. He further stated that the BPP in the Detroit area is
in the process of organizing a party and at this point has no
definite meeting place or date. However, any persons interested
in assisting the organization of the BPP in the Detroit area
may do so by contacting Luke Tripp or Leonard Brown.

-
2
==End of OCR for page 25==

