124-10281-10028 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/14/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10281-10028
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-80750-4563

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SHRODER, R. I.
TO: ROSEN

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1967
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: [Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId:32302308 Page 1 3

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
SECRET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. Rosen DATE: March 15, 1967
Declassify on: OADR GPK
FROM: I. Shroder

SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA Mr. Thompson
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCE (CIA Mr. Sullivan
VENEZUELA KIDNAPING Mr. Trotter
(Classified by Phil
Classify on: OADR 1/6/85
This relates to information received from CIA in-
dicating the possibility that the Communist Party of Venezuela
may attempt to kidnap the child of a CIA employee Thomas
Keogh. No investigation is being conducted by us and appro-
priate dissemination has previously been made.(54)
At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA, finger-
prints and photographs have been obtained and were furnished
to SA W. O. Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman of CIA on 3/10/67. This
material is being made part of this file for possible use in the
event of a kidnaping. Photographs and fingerprints are of the
following individuals: Joseph Edward Keogh; Thomas Patrick
Keogh, Jr.; Christina Margarita Keogh; Elizabeth Teresa Keogh;
Francis Xavier Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, III, and Maria Rita
Keogh.
ACTION
This matter has been coordinated with the Identifi-
cation Division and it is recommended that this memo and
attachment be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB,
in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and
filed.

Enclosure ENCLOSURE ATTACHEP: REC 33

ENCEDAT HE ST-114
Fingerprints of following detached and file with Helenke

MARIA RITA KEOGH
EDWARD JOSEPH REOGH
CHAISTINA MARGARITA KEOCH
ELIZABETH TERESA REOGH
FRANCIS XAVIER KEOGH
JAMES PATRICK KEOGH JR.
SECRET
THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH III.

NW 50953 DocId:32302308 Page 2
