124-90084-10077
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/30/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90084-10077
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-209-727

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 10/06/1971
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC REGIONAL SEMINAR FOR
CENTRAL AMERICAN C
LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLEGRAM

v9.1 24
NW 50953 DocId:32329096 Page 1

CENTRAL ROUTINE
INTELLIGENCE IN 436533
AGENCY
PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES
DIRECTORATE OF STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONE CRS XXXBXXNXORS
INTELLIGENCE

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sers. 793 and 794, the
transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
GROUP 1
SECRET Excluded from outomatic
downgrading and declassificotion
CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONCITE TDCS-314/10539-71
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
POLITICAL MATTERS RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIO 6 OCTOBER 1971
COUNTRY COSTA RICA/CENTRAL AMERICA IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
DOI 19-25 SEPTEMBER 1971 KP 10-10-41550
SUBJECT CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC REGIONAL SEMINAR FOR CENTRAL
AMERICAN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC LEADERS
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 5-23-94BY SPB/MACIEH
ACQ EL SALVADOR, SAN SALVADOR (29 SEPTEMBER 1971) FIELD NO. HSS-2550 (5)
SOURCE(S)[A DEPUTY OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN THE NATIONAL]
LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY. HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER.
HE OBTAINED THE INFORMATION FROM A PERSON WHO ATTENDED THE
SEMINAR.
EX-112 REC-34 109-12-209-727
1. WHILE THE 19 TO 25 SEPTEMBER 1971 SEMINAR AT ALAJUELA,
COSTA RICA FOR SENIOR REPRESENTATIVES OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMO-
CRATIC PARTIES AND MOVEMENTS OF CENTRAL AMERICA WAS ENTITLED
"THE STRATEGY OF SOCIAL POWER," THE TRUE PURPOSE OF THE SEMINAR
8 OCT 14 1971
WAS TO ACCOMPLISH A VERY DETAILED ANALYSIS OF THE POLITICAL SITUA

TION IN EL SALVADOR, GUATEMALA, HONDURAS, NICARAGUA, PANAMA, AND
COSTA RICA. TO THIS END, THE TWENTY-FOUR PARTICIPANTS IN THE
SEMINAR WERE PRESENTED AT THE OUTSET WITH A VERY DETAILED
2
1 54 OCT 22 1971
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification)
(dissem controls)
5
4
3
2
1
NW 50953 DocId: 32329096 Page 2

Ост 13 11 29 AM 1971
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM ROUTINE 90084-10077
(classification) (dissem controls) REC'D IN 436533
DOM INTELL
TDCS-314/10539-71
PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES
QUESTIONNAIRE PREPARED BY THE INSTITUTE FOR CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC
FORMATION (IFEDEC) CONCERNING THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN EACH OF
THE SIX CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES. LAUREANO BATISTA, THE
IFEDEC REPRESENTATIVE AT THE SEMINAR, REQUESTED THAT REPRESENTA-
TIVES FROM EACH OF THE COUNTRIES PREPARE WRITTEN REPLIES TO THE
QUESTIONNAIRE.
2. COSTA RICAN AND NICARAGUAN REPRESENTATIVES, PARTICULARLY
JORGE X MONGE OF COSTA RICA, REACTED IN AN EXTREMELY NEGATIVE
AND SUSPICIOUS FASHION TO THE IFEDEC QUESTIONNAIRE AND REFUSED TO
PROVIDE WRITTEN ANSWERS. OTHER REPRESENTATIVES HAD LITTLE DESIRE
TO PROVIDE WRITTEN ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONNAIRE BUT GENERALLY DID
NOT REACT AS STRONGLY AS DID THE COSTA RICANS AND NICARAGUANS. THOSE
MOST OPPOSED TO BATISTA'S REQUEST EXPRESSED THE VIEW THAT THE
QUESTIONNAIRE WAS AN IFEDEC PLOY TO OBTAIN INFORMATION CONCERNING
THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND THEY DUBBED THE QUESTIONNAIRE
EFFORT "OPERATION CAMELOT," BATISTA EXPLAINED THAT THE INFORMATION
REQUESTED WAS REQUIRED BY THE LATIN AMERICAN CENTER FOR INFORMATION
(CIDAL), AN ORGANIZATION RECENTLY FOUNDED IN CARACAS BY THE AMERICAN
CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATION (ODCA) AND HEADED BY BATISTA. 5
THE SALVADORAN REPRESENTATIVES AT THE SEMINAR, AT LEAST, HAD NEVER
BEFORE HEARD OF DAL. IT WAS FINALLY DECHI THAT NO WRITTEN 2
1
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)
5
4
3
2
1
NW 50953 DocId: 32329096 Page 3
