124-10296-10130 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 5/27/201
JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10296-10130

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 163-1504-7

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: DIRECTOR, CIA
TITLE:

DATE: 03/23/1970
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: WHJ, ASSOC, RCK, IDENT, BKG, AKA, MIL SERV, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1 3
NW 50953 DocId:32308802 Page 1

EX. 106 REC-35 SECRET
(RI) 163-1504 7

1 - Mr. Michela
Date: March 20, 1970 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
To: Director RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
Central Intelligence Agency IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR
BRACKETS ON PG.
Attention: Deputy Director for Plans 2
KP 10-10-97
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

1-17-98
Subject: GEORGE HOOVER PRATT CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD IKSR
INTERNAL SECURITY - LAOS
ALL INFORMATION CCONTRACI/AL MATTERS DECLASSIFY ON: 25x (JFK)
ED INCLASSIFIED
WHERE SHOWN.
WISE
Reference is made to your request dated March 10,
1970, and to my letter dated November 21, 1969, concerning
captioned individual, your file B-956.

There is enclosed one copy each of the fingerprint
cards of captioned individual and James Warren Smedley, who
may be identical with the James Warren Smedley mentioned in
your request of March 10, 1970.

It is noted that you were furnished two copies of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation Identification Record
concerning George Hoover Pratt, by my letter dated
November 21, 1969. A review of the files of this Bureau
disclosed no Identification Record identifiable with
James Warren Smedley or William Herman Jackson, also
known as Jack Karl Lawborn, who were also mentioned in
your request of March 10, 1970.
JCM:djw/ekw SEE NOTE PAGE TWO
HSCA ne William H. Jackson
See Bupile 801-721
v9.1 NW 50953 DocId:32308802 Page 2

Director SECRET
Central Intelligence Agency

While no Identification Record concerning
James Warren Smedley was located, the enclosed fingerprint
cards concerning Smedley and Pratt may be of assistance to
you in making record checks through official Thai sources. (S)
The enclosed fingerprint cards and the copies of the
Identification Record which were furnished to you by my
letter dated November 21, 1969, may be utilized by you
in checking [official Thai sources concerning the (5)
individuals mentioned above. In making such checks, you
must insure that the Thai officials clearly understand (s)
that it is your Agency which is making the record checks
and that such checks are not in any way being made for
this Bureau.

Enclosures - 2

NOTE:
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) previously
checked the names of Pratt, Jackson, and Smedley through
Bureau files. CIA has advised that Pratt had reportedly
attempted to get people out of Vietnam into Laos where
these people could be trained and shipped to the United States
to assist in the "Black Movement." By memorandum dated
3/10/70, CIA furnished additional identifying information
concerning Jackson and Smedley and requested copies of
fingerprint records. CIA requested to be advised if those
records could be provided to official Thai sources in(S)
order to facilitate checking certain Thai records which
would otherwise be unavailable. (S)

- 2 -
NW 50953 DocId:32308802 Page 3

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM DISSEM ABROAD

B-956 A
10 MAR 1970

SUBJECT: George Hoover PRATT

Reference: A. Our memorandum of 11 February 1970,
Subject as above.
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR B. Your letter dated 21 November 1969,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION Subject: George Hoover PRATT,
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR Internal Security - Laos, Racial
BRACIUTS Matters.
KP 10-10-97 SLD/KSR 1-17-98(JFK)

1. Our representative in Vientiane, Laos has
provided the following additional information con-
cerning Herman JACKSON and King SMEDLEY mentioned in
paragraph 1A of reference A:

a. Herman JACKSON is believed to be identi-
cal with William Herman JACKSON, also known as Jack Karl
IAWHORN, who was born on 24 November 1926 in Dothan,
Alabama. JACKSON is a retired United States Army Master
Sergeant who now owns Jack's American Star Bar in Bang-
kok, Thailand. He carries United States passport number
2539419.

b. King SMEDLEY is believed to be identical
with James Warren SMEDLEY, negro male born on 3 October FOREIGN
1922 at Roanoke, Virginia. SMEDLEY served in the United
States Air Force. He carries United States passport
2424089.

2. Please provide us with copies of the finger-
print records of Subject and William Herman JACKSON.
Please advise us if we may provide these records to
official Thai sources in order to facilitate checking
certain Thai records that would otherwise not be avail-
able.
EX. - 106 REC-35
PLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY VIA LIAISON, MR. S. J. PARKER 163-1504-7

MAR 24 1970
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
SECRET
NW 50953 DocId: 32308802 Page 4
