124-90037-10081 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90037-10081

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-380792-26

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BN
TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/29/1959
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: MARTIN GREENDLINGER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1 24
NW 50953 DocId: 32325799 Page 1

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 SECRET et
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 3/9
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 1/29/59

FROM : LEGAT, BONN (100-633)

SUBJECT: MARTIN GREENDLINGER, aka Classified by SPCBJA/GCL ターノ
SECURITY MATTER C Declassify on: DADR8/28/85

Reference New York letterhead memorandum 11/17/58, furnished by
Bureau routing slip 11/24/58.

The following agencies were furnished a summary of the New
York information on the subject and were requested to provide any information
which might come to their attention regarding the subject's travels or
activities:

G-2, Headquarters, U.S. Army Europe;
Office of Special Investigations, U.S. Air Forces, Europe;
Office of Coordinator and Special Advisor (confidential CIA),
American Embassy, Bonn, Germany; ] (5)
British Services Security Organization, British Forces in Germany;
Abteilung II (Security Police), Austrian Ministry of the Interior;
Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BfV - West German Federal Office
for the Protection of the Constitution) and,
Security Office, American Embassy, Vienna, Austria. (5)

None of these agencies, except the British have furnished any
information to date. The British Services Security Organization advised under
date of 12/30/58, that it had no trace in its records on the subject, bis
parents, Mr. and Mrs. DAVID GREENDLINGER, or his wife, ELENA IVANOVNA Greendlinger

3 - Bureau RUC. LOC. CIA HAS NO OBJECTION FOR REC-60 Martin Greendlinger
1 - Bonn DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR 100-380792-26
(4) GAV:tlc RETEFORMATION 7 FEB 3 1959
AGENCY/CC-NH IN THIS BLAMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS EX-102 KP 10-10-97
REO'D ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
FOR EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
REC-60
DATE: 2-4459
ACTION-FILES
IND:mor
IDH By
OTHERWISE

LED 5 5006.20
SSECTION CORLEO
BECID 52 FEB 11 1959 LONCH NVI۲

SECRET
NW 50953 DocId: 32325799 Page 2
