124-10326-10105 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/9/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10105
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-81

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 04/20/1970
'PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1 6
NW 50953 DocId: 32313177 Page 1

SECRET

1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Cassidy

April 20, 1970

REC-28 EX-115
62-99724-81

Classified by SPALWIKFA 10/20/80
Declassify on: OADR
CAF88-1800
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

SP LETTER SERIES

Reference is made to your SP-9038 dated April 9,
1970. We feel that the méthod of addressing and forwarding
SP material as utilized in this instance will enable us to
handle such information in a discreet manner and request
that you continue to forward this material in this manner.
(5)

With regard to SCOPE items, your suggestion as
set forth in paragraph two of reference will enable us to
handle this highly sensitive material in the proper manner
and request that you forward it as proposed.

62-99724

ORIGINAL & 1 TO CIA

FJC:wmk/aga (5)

NOTE:

In 1954 a procedure was approved whereby we could
attribute certain information received from CIA under the
symbol "Bureau Informant 100." CIA forwards this information
utilizing an SP (Special Projects) number. They are asking
our concurrence in a method of addressing and forwarding
this material. They also suggested forwarding (SCOPE) material(5)
(sensitive information concerning ( Ksraeli intelligence
activities in the same manner. They proposed to forward
this material by courier in sealed envelopes to be delivered to
Liaison Section Supervisor D. J. Brennan, Jr. It is felt this
is the best way in which this highly sensitive material can be
handled.

Tolson
DeLoach
Walters
Mohr
Bishop
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Slivgo
Soya
Tele. Room
Holines
Gandy

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from sutomatic
downgrading and
declassification
CIA HAS NO CRUCTION TO
DECLASSE
RELEASE UP CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT... EXCE07
JM 6-29-98 BRACKETS

11970
MANL BOOM TELETYPE UNIT
NW 50953 DocId:32313177 Page 2

Read risad 4-15-70
SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-29-98 SP-9038
9 April 1970

SUBJECT: SP Letter Series

Jannes Angleton
1. In this same envelope we are forwarding other items
which have interested you in the past and for which the SP series
was originally set up. We would like you to confirm to us that
this method of addressing and forwarding this material enables
your office to handle it in the discreet manner as has been the
case without exception in the past.
(s)
2. We have a few items in the SCOPE area which we would
also like to forward. We suggest that the SCOPE material be for-
warded in the same envelope with the regular SP letters, separately
wrapped. We request your approval for handling the SCOPE material
in this way. (5)

3. Please coordinate any correspondence on this subject with
Mr. D. J. Brennan.

FBI INFO
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSK REC-28
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X EX-115
(JFK) 62-99724-81

10 APR 22 1970
2 y
5-

GROUP 1
Excluded from au's natio
downgrading and
declassificarion
SECRET
KAMTO CIA
FSC: UMK 4/20/20
NW 50953 DocId:32313177 Page 3
