124-90139-10002 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/21/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10002
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: 10/10/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

4
v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32337875 Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum SECRET
TO : Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr,
DATE: 10/10/63
FROM : Mr. S. J. Papich
SUBJECT: MANUEL PINEIRO
IS - CUBA

We previously have been informed that the subject is a
high-ranking official in the Cuban G-2 organization in Havana. On(5)
10/8/63, Mrs. Anita Potocki, a CIA analyst who has been working
on intercepted Cuban communications intelligence traffic Sadvised
the Liaison Agent that her Agency has come to the tentative conclu-
sion that Pineiro is identical with Petronio, who has been men-
tioned in messages made available to the Bureau and CIA. We have
noted that messages sent to the unidentified Cuban Agent in Panama
referred to as "Roberto" have been signed by "Petronio" (5)
Mrs. Potocki gave the following explanation which led to
CIA's deduction.

Messages emanating from Havana indicated that one of the
recipients was probably located in a small town in Colombia near the
Venezuelan Border. CIA developed a suspect and instituted coverage.
Recently, this individual transmitted a letter to Havana which
communication was intercepted by CIA. The person had apparently
violated instructions by including some sensitive data in the
communication. Havana then transmitted a radio message castigating
the Cuban Agent in Colombia. An examination of the radio message
and the intercepted communication sent by the Agent has led CIA
to believe that "Petronio" is identical with Pineiro (5)

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the Nationalities
Intelligence Section. CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
Bufile 105-78656
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION.
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
1 - Mr. Wannall
KP 3-19-98
1 - Mr. Dunn
1 - 65-67843 ("Roberto')

1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich
SJP:chs
4/24/95
Classified by 16-63
Declassify on: OR
SECRET
NW 50953 DocId:32337875 Page 2
