124-90137-10467 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10467

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 06/26/1961
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

FORM NO. 10 Tolson
UNITED STATES GOVER ENT Belmont
Mohr
Memorandum Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
SECXE Malone
Rosen
TO : Mr. L'Allier DATE: June 26, 1961 Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
FROM : S. J. Papich CONFIDENTIAL Tele. Room
(5668418/45-JFK) Ingram
Gandy
12/10/93
SUBJECT: JORGE BELLARD(C) Classified by 9803/800/8
PSI (C)
-
IS CUBA Declassify on MADE 21,326

The captioned individual is a station manager of the
Cubana Airlines, Idlewild International Airport, New York City.
☑ Recently Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) submitted a name check
request concerning Beliard. Liaison was requested to determine
the purpose of this requestC

On June 23, 1961, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised the
Liaison Agent that a Cuban source had suggested to CIA that
(C)Beliard possibly could be of some use to the Agency in

connection with its operations in Cuba. Mrs. Roman stated that
essentially CIA's interest would be to obtain assistance from
Beliard in arranging courier routes between Cuba and the
United States (C) CIA is of the opinion that Beliard through
his contacts in the Cubana Airlines and because of his possible
association with individuals who travel regularly between the
two countries, could arrange for CIA (to communicate with
clandestine sources inside Cuba. (C) The Liaison Agent requested
CIA not to establish any contact with Beliard pending further
word from the Bureau.

- ACTION: CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/KSR
DECLASSIFY.ON: 25X(JFK)

The above information is being directed to the attention
of the Nationalities Intelligence Section for appropriate review.
We can either (1) inform CIA that no contact whatsoever should be
Made by CIA with Beliard in view of current Bureau operational(C)
interest, or (2) we can permit CIA to maintain contact with Beliard
for exploration of its interests as described above, or (3) we can
talk to Beliard concerning the potential for establishing courier
routes and serve as the intermediary if Beliard is in a position
to be of assistance in this regard. Replies to CIA should be

handled via Liaison
SP: ban base
(5). CONFIDENTIAL
REC- 85 105-89457-904
1 - Mr. Donahoe
1 - Mr. Dunn
EX-112 SECXET
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich 10 JUL 5 1961
ICOPIES MADE, DATE 6-6-78 BY
Te RE Papich
FOR REVIEW AT FSIND AND/OR DELIVERS
TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED YN.Y.
(SEE BUFILE 62-11729000161 FET: J

NW 50953 DocId:32337701 Page 2
