124-10212-10160 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/1/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10160
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-120916-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 05/01/1963
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS: MZF, ASSOC, B/F INT, ACA, INFT, INFO, NEG, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/24/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1 11
NW 45782 DocId: 32293884 Page 1

OPTIONAL FONO
5010-10401
UNITED STATES G ERNMENT
Meinorandum
SECRET
TO DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: MAY 1 1963

HAS NO JOIECTO 5-26-96
CLASSIFIEROMIONORSAC, MIAMI (105-7052) (C) Classified by SP8 Monde
RELEASE OF PAMATION DATION
IN THIS DOCUMEN EXCEPT BRACKETS (1057055) (C) Declassify on: DADR (OAK)
GMBI-SUBJECT: LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL, aka
JFK SLOKS
APPROPRIATE AGENCIES
ANDMELD FFICES
ADVISED BY EXUTING
Luis Condom
IS CUBA
(Miami File 105-7052)
#21326 multiple Soure es
Classified by SoubenGL
Declassify on: OADR14/84
Sur
SLTP(S)
DATE
ALVARO MARTIN FERNANDEZ FOX, aka by 1259
Alvaro Fernandez
IS CUBA
(Miami File 105-7055)
Exerant Som CDS, Catopary 2
Date of Decimusitaustion Indesinite
2/28/75
Enclosed for the Bureau are 11 copies of a letterhead
memorandum, captioned as above, suitable for dissemination.
Two copies are for the use of the Legat, Mexico, in view of
the information gathered concerning activities of Cubans in
Mexico.
One letterhead memorandum has been written with the
dual caption inasmuch as the information gathered concerning
Cone individual pertained to the other.

The letterhead memorandum is classified "Secret" as
it contains CIA information so classified. (u)
4
20917-1
On 3/11/63, JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF, CIA representative
Miami, Florida, advised the the original source of the informationX
in this case and that furnished by his office was RAFAEL PADRON
PRADO, 575 SE 9th Avenue, Hialeah, Florida ((s)

The TULIO PREITO mentioned in the enclosed letterhead
memorandum is identical with TULIO INOCENCIO PREETO RUIZ, IS
CUBA, Bureau Origin, Miami file 105-5193. PRIETO is not a source
of the Miami Office.
4
Bureau (RM) (Encls.
11)
JC02- Legat, Mexico) (RM)
2- Miami
....
SER REVERSE
CLASIFICATION
กทรงอ ACTION
Copy to Mesa REC-351: SIDE FOR 17
DYPJNE IRILITE
E
CIM
PL-by routineyslip-for
ECI
TLP
date
by
67 MAY 31 1963
63
MCT3
450.0
52010015-22.63
BEO BL120916
ay to INS (leae)
Locally
Copy to: CIA/State/0X3
ONI/QSI/ACSI
by routing slip for into. P
Date 5-22-
by
NW 45782 DocId:32293884 Page 2
8 MAY-31963
Kerry
5/23
yr
SECRET
-
PROPRIATE AGENCIES
AND FIELD OFFICES
ADVISED BY ROUTING
DATE/32
SLIP(S) O
ALINAT. INT. SECA
FORMATION CONTAI
EKABIN TSUNCLASSIFIED
NCERT WHERE SHOWNO
OTHERWISE
UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FILED INS
5

SECRET
r
i
:
:
MM 105-7052
MM 105-7055

LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL, who furnished information
set forth in the letterhead memorandum, also advised that he
worked with CIA in Havana from the beginning of 1960 to
November, 1960, through EMILIO FERNANDEZ, a U.S. citizen.(5)

CONDOM also advised that ALVARO FERNANDEZ FOX, who
was also interviewed in this matter, is the nephew of MARTIN
FOX, former owner of the Tropicana Nightclub in Havana, Cuba.
CONDOM believes that since coming to Miami from Mexico City,
ALVARO FERNANDEZ has become involved in the bolita racket
inasmuch as his uncle is supposed to be a bolita racketeer
in Miami. It is noted that when interviewed, ALVARO FERNANDEZ
stated that he is unemployed and lives from money furnished
him by his uncle, MARTIN FOX, and another uncle, PEDRO FOX, also
residing in Miami at 302 Southwest Beacom Boulevard.'

ALVARO FERNANDEZ, in addition to the information set
forth in the enclosed letterhead memorandum, advised that while
he was in Mexico City he worked as an informant for STEVE MINAS,
U.S. Customs representative, U.S. Embassy, telephone 46-94-00,
Extension 373, or home phone 48-02-50. He also advised that
he was to contact Customs Agent ED FICKIE in Miami at FR 7-3571,
which he did; however, FERNANDEZ has not been used by FICKIE
in the Miami area. FERNANDEZ advised he helped on narcotics
matters.
-
INFORMANTS
-
The representative of MM T-1, mentioned in the
letterhead memorandum, is JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF, CIA, Miami,
Florida. MM T-1 is CIA, Washington, D.C.
()(u)
The following sources, all of whom have some knowledge
of Cuban activities in the Miami, Florida, area were contacted
with negative results:
-
2
USCS
REVIEWED BY VIFK TAOR FORCE
ON 11:25 ib dak
RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART /
TOTAL DENIAL
1
NW 45782 DocId:32293884 Page 3
SECRET
:
