124-90140-10004 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/21/2001
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10004

RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-398547-60

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: CIA
TITLE:
. DATE: 03/13/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: ANGELA PRINCE MOUTSOS
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

REC-140 (SC) 100-398547- 
Date: March 13, 1963
- COPIES MADE, DATE 6-9-78 BY
FOR REVIEW AT EBIHQ AND/OR DELIVERY
TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED 4/28..
(SEE BUFILE 62-11729)- Liaison
1 Mr. Floyd
Director
X-114 TO: Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Subject: ANGELA PRINCE MOUTSOS
SECURITY MATTER - C 3-4-94
Classified by 201
Teclassify on: MADR
2/1336

Reference is made to prior communications
concerning the captioned individual.
(5668/EL
3/31/42)
It would be appreciated if you would advise
this Bureau of any information which has come to your
attention indicating continued residence by the
captioned individual in Cuba. Any additional information
which you may have received concerning her activities
in that country would also be appreciated.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT
EET BRACICTS IN
KP 10-17-97
2 - New York (100-112920) (See note)
ATTENTION SAC. NEW YORK:
Reurlet 3/1/63.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE。
12-15-97
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 540/10SR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 1

You will be advised concerning the results
of the above inquiry.
NOTE ON YELLOW:
Subject is in SI. She traveled to Cuba in
December, 1960, to join her husband, Pedros Moutsos,
who, in the past, has acted as CIA informant, informants New York
Fequested contact with CIA for information of subject's
current residence in Cuba and her activities
Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
WHF:cad
(7)
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
BY COURIER SVC.
28 MAR 14
COMM-FBI

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

NW 50953 DocId:32338047 Page 2
