124-90110-10083  2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System  Date: 6/2/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10083

RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89923-184

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/13/1961
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: CLIP
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: TT

v9.1 12
NW 50953 DocId:32334090 Page 1

54-41 (Rev. 1-25-61)

CODED COPY
SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSFFAD
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE.

4-13-61 4-17 PM SK

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, MIAMI 131836
INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

Stu
Tolson
Parsons
Mohr
Belmont
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Rosen
Tavel
Trotter
W.C. Sullivan
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

Teletype
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICAT AND/OR OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Classima by
Declassify on: VADR

IS-GUBA. BUFILES 105-89923, 137-6257,87-58729.
APRIL 3 LAST MM 722 C FURNISHED FOLLOWING RE JOSEPH RAMEROLA,
FORMER CI, NOW SUSPECT IN "UNSUBS (TWO) ARMED ROBBERY OF

APPROXIMATELY $117,200 IN JEWELRY AND CASE, RESIDENCE OF
EDITH, AND FRITZ DORIGO, HALLANDALE, FLORIDA, MARCH 20, 1961,

ITSP, MAJOR THEFT, 00 MIAMI." MEROLA RECENTLY TOLD CI HE
IS CONNECTED WITH CIA IN SOME CAPACITY IN WHICH HE CLAIMED TO
HAVE ACCESS TO ALL FORMS EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING FIREARMS AND
AMMUNITION, BEING FURNISHED BY CIA TO SOME ANTI CASTRO GROUP.
MEROLA CLAIMED CIA SENDS THIS EQUIPMENT TO MEROLAS HOME WHERE
IT IS SUBSEQUENTLY PICKED UP BY BOAT FROM REAR MEROLA RESIDENCE
CLAIMED HE IS REQUIRED HAVE CUBANS WHO OBTAIN GUNS SIGN RECEIPT
FOR SAME. OPERATION TAKES PLACE UNDER COVER DARKNESS. CLA I MED
TO HAVE TAKEN FROM EQUIPMENT SEVERAL AUTOMATICS EQUIPPED WITH
SILENCERS. INFORMANT CLAIMS MEROLA IS ARMING THE OUTFIT"
AND IS FURNISHING THESE WEAPONS TO VARIOUS HOODLUM ACQUAINTANCES
FOR SUM $500 EACH. MEROLA EXHIBITED ONE SUCH AUTOMATIC TO CI
AND DEMONSTRATED BY FIRING SHOT INTO AIR. CI "COULD NOT HEAR
A THING." ON APRIL 5 JOHN NOBLE, COVERT CIA AGENT WORKING
OPERATIONAL LEVEL, ADVISED DID NOT BELIEVE CIA HAD OPERATIONAL
INTEREST IN MEROLA BUT WOULD CHECK.. ON APRIL 6 HE ADVISED
CIA HAD NOT OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN MERORECON ON APRIL 7 JUSTIN

Tel to Miami
1/4/61

XEROX CRIMINAL INFORMANT

APR 24 1961

TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY

63 APR 26 1962
5 APR 19-1961

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 50953 DocId:32334090 Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 1-25-61)

DECODED COPY

Tolson
Parsons
Mohr
Belmont
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Tavel
Trotter
W.C. Sullivan
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

Radio ☑ Teletype:
Stu

PAGE TWO: FROM SAC, MIAMI 131836

GLEICHAUF, OVERT CIA REPRESENTATIVE, MIAMI, ADVISED ABOUT TWO
MONTHS AGO HE WENT TO MEROLAS HOME AFTER MEROLA PESTERED HIM
WITH PHONE CALLS OFFERING RENT PLANE OR HELICOPTER TO CLA
FOR USE BY FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO, ANTI CASTRO
ORGANIZATION UTILIZED BY CLIP. MEROLA SHOWED GLEICHAUF BOAT
TERRY KNAUT" DOCKED BEHIND HIS HOME AND IMPLIED THIS WAS
HIS BOAT AND IT HAD ALREADY BEEN USED BY FRENTE. MEROLA
SEEMED EAGER GET OUT OF U. S. AND SUGGESTED CIA USE HIM ON
SOME MISSION TO BRAZIL WHERE MEROLA PLANNED WORK OUT DEAL
TO SHIP WHISKEY TO BRAZIL DUTY FREE THROUGH BRAZILIAN
POLITICIAN. GLEICHAUF TOLD MEROLA HE WAS NOT INTERESTED.
AFTER FURTHER CHECK, GLEICHAUF ADVISED MIAMI THIS BOAT HAS
BEEN USED ON ONE OR MORE OPERATIONS BY FRENTE, BUT NOT
LIKELY BE USED AGAIN BECAUSE IN BAD SHAPE. BOAT 63 FEET,
BEARS REGISTRATION NUMBER 270404. GLEICHAUF STATED MEROLA
NOT WORKING FOR CIA OR FRENTE SO FAR AS CAN DETERMINE. ON
APRIL 5 DAVID GLASS, COVERT CIA AGENT, FURNISHED MIAMI LIST
BOATS BEING USED IN VARIOUS OPERATIONS IN WHICH CIA HAS
INTEREST. "TERRY KNOTT" ON THIS LIST. AFTER SEVERAL
FUNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPTS TO CONTACT VARONA PERSONALLY, ON APRIL 13
JORGE MORAN, SECRETARY TO MANUEL ANTONIO DE VARONA LOREDO,
GENERAL COORDINATOR OF FRENTE, CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED MEROLA
IS WORKING ON THE BOAT "TERRY KNOTT" OWNED BY MOVIMIENTO DE
RECUPERACION DE LA REVOLUCION, MRR, WHICH IS MEMBER ORGANIZATION
OF FRENTE. MORAN STATED BOAT WAS OPERATED BY SANTIAGOV BABUM
APRIL 8 AND JOSE "PEPE" VARRIOLA WAS IN CHARGE OF "TERRY KNOTT

No locality

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 50953 DocId:32334090 Page 3
