157-10011-10092
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Date: 10/06/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10092

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM: ROETHE, JAMES N.
TO: FILE

TITLE :
MARCHETTI, VICTOR

DATE: 03/28/75
PAGES: 84

SUBJECTS :
TESTIMONY OF MARCHETTI, VICTOR
APRIL 3, 1975

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
SSCI Box 294, Folder 11

NW 50955 DocId: 32203860 Page 1

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AGENCY: SSCIA
XJFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10092
Date: 10/06/93
Page: 1

RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM: ROETHE, JAMES N.
TO: FILE
TITLE :
MARCHETTI, VICTOR
DATE: 03/28/75
PAGES: 84
SUBJECTS :
TESTIMONY OF MARCHETTI, VICTOR
APRIL 3, 1975
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:
SSCI Box 294, Folder 11

NW 50955 DocId:32203860 Page 2
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

WARD & PAUL
i
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
13

1 met him, I only saw him on the TV a few months ago, he looks
2 like a broken man, he did that day anyway. But he was a very
3 mysterious, very
4 MR. OLSEN: To use the house term, he was a spook?
5 MR. MARCHETTI: Yes. He was a very exotic character. And
6 And all kinds of stories float around about Jim Angleton.
7 I am sure that some are nothing more than apocryphal and some
8 are pure rumor.
9 What intrigued me about this Runge thing is that
10 subsequently another reporter and this time the guy identi-
11 fied the man he had been talking to the man he had been
12 talking to was Bill Harvey, who was one of the people respon-
13 sible for exposing Philby, in fact Philby gives Harvey the
14 credit in his book under a pseudonym that Harvey said to
1.5 this guy, oh, yes, the Agency to this reporter yes, the
16 Agency has been penetrated, it may even be now he made some
17 pompous statements of that nature. But then when the guy tried
18 to dig deeper, Harvey held him at arm's length.
19 MR. OLSEN: Who is Harvey?
20 MR. MARCHETTI: Bill Harvey was a scenario officer.
21 He had been, among other things, Chief of Base in Berlin during
the Cold War He had been Head of the Cuban task force.
22 MR. OLSEN: Which Cuban task force do you refer to
23 now? The one that was organized
24
25 MR. MARCHETTI: Within the Agency, the Agency's own

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId: 32203860 Page 3
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
26
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 Soviet defectors and peoplw who claim to be and have subse-
2 quently been found to be legitimate defectors.
3 MR. MARCHETEI: You mean found to be illegitimate
4 defectors?
5 MR. OLSEN: No, found to be legitimate defectors
6 well, either way.
7 MR. MARCHETTI: Well, they would turn up from time to
8 time. Usually I didn't have any direct dealings. They were
9 handled by the Clandestine Services. But you would know the
(?)
10 case. There is the famous case of Olenevski (?), who is this
11 Polish intelligence officer who said that he was a KGB plantin
12 the Polish service, and he is the one that many people on the
WARD & PAUL
13 extreme right like to point to as having identified all kinds
14 of agents within the US Government. Eventually I got to the
15 point where the was taking out ads in the newspapers to the
16 effect that he is the tsaravitch, he had survived the shooting,
17 and the legal claim and the throne.
18 At this point you don't know if the guy was nuts all
19 along, and I don't know what the official thinking about it
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
20 at the Agency is.
21 But there have been anumber of others over the years.
22 There is Golonewski.
23 MR. OLSEN: How do you spell his name.
24 MR. MARCHETTI:
25 These names are a matter of record. You will have

NW 50955 DocId: 32203860 Page 4
TOP SECRET

WARD && PAUL
Phone (Arca 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
23
1 defecotrs which you believe to be questionable as to whether
2 or not it comes within the charter of the CIA?
3 MR. HARCHETTI: No.. As I say, I have no first hand
4 knowledge on this subject.
5 You remember the finev-Rouse case?
6 MR. OLSEN: Yes. You mentioned that in your book, I
7 believe, don't you?
8 MR. MARCHETTI: I was in the Agency at the time that
9 happened, but I knew practically nothing about it in the Agency.
10 For one reason, I didn't pay any attention to it. I had no
11 reason to. But it was after getting out of the Agency.
12 This happened to be a case where Rouse, under Agency
13 orders, was directed to Mineyas being a Soviet agent in the
14 L.Estonian group, And Minev apparently to this day claims
15 absolute innocence, and said that he was framed, and it was
done
for
16 other reasons, because he didn't see eye to eye with the
Agency
17
18 MR. OLSEN: You don't know the story behind that, I
19 take it?
1
20 MR. MARCHETTI: No. But you could find out. I don't
21 know what the Agency was doing. All I know is that Helms
22 submitted some sort of affidavit which the judge accepted, and
23 on the basis of that the case was resolved in favor of Rouse.
24 He had to idneitify Rouse as being in the Agency's employ and
25 acting under orders from the Agency. The reasons why, they are

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32203860 Page 5
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
Delete fracketed
NSA
info: goms 3/1194
TOP SECRET
69
seem to work properly except in the US. And I am wondering what
1
2 kind of use in the US you might be aware of?
01
3 MR. MARCHETTI: That wasn't what I meant by that.
4 What I meant was, it worked good under laboratory conditions
5 here, but when I would take it out to the field, it wouldn't
6 work.
7 MR. ROETHE: You weren't referring to any use of these
8 beams here in the US?
9 MR. MARCHETTI: No, I was not.
10 But that is that system that people are talking about
11 now, the laser people bugging system, where they can get a
12 building across the street there and direct a beam here and
13 pick it up. It has become quite popular in recent years, at
14 least they talk about it.
MR OLSEN: YOu mean in the spy literature?
15
MR MARCHETTI: Yes.
16
:
17 MR ROETHE: At page 196 you refer to monitoring of
18 embassy traffic from Maryland and Virginia. Were you referring
19 to CIA's activity in monitoring, or NSAP
7
20 MR. MARCHETTI: NSA
21 MR. ROETHE: You are not aware of any CIA activity of
22 this nature?
23 MR. MARCHETTI: No, not here in this country. In
24 fact, the only case that I was aware of overseas that the CIA
25 did it, if they did it at all, they did it because NSA for

50955 DocId: 32203860 Page 6
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
Delete bracketed
NSA
info.org
3/1994
70
-certain-political reasons, the Government didn't want NSA win)
1
2 there the military personnel
MR. ROETHE:
3 There is one reference to breaking into:
4 embassies at page 199. And there is no reference to any
5 particular embassy. Are you aware of any activity where the
6 CIA was actually implicated in breaking into an embassy? You
7 have already talked about the Cilean Embassy.
8 MR. MARCHETTI: This was based on information that was
9 availabe in the Houston Plan, which by that time had become
10 public. And also certain background information about the
11 capabilities of the SAgin its technical field, and certain CIA
12 clandestine abilities. And it was all rolled into one as a
supposition.
13
14 MR. ROETHE: On page 207 you indicate that many
15 individuals at CIA were pressing for action against the KGB
here in the US as the FRI was not doing a good enough job?
16
MR MARCHETTI: Yes.
17
MR. ROETHE: Do you know of any actual operations that
18
were ever taken by teh CIA, or do you have any evidence of such
19
operations?
20
MR. MARCHETTI:
21 No, I do not.
MR. ROETHE: On page 216 you refer to training of
22
New and Chicago police. What kind of training are you referring
23
to, or do you know?
24 MR. MARCHETTI: That is just it. I am not exactly sure
25
NW 50955 DocId: 32203860
Page 7
TOP SECRET
