157-10014-10067 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 08/06/95
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10067
RECORDS SERIES: HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 09-H-08

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM: TWEEDY, BRONSON
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 09/09/75
PAGES: 76
SUBJECTS: CONGO
ASSASSINATION, LUMUMBA

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/98
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32423455 Page 1

TOP SECRET ORIGINAL
Vol 1 OF 3 NATIONAL SECURI
INFORMATION
Unauthorised Disclosure Subject
to Criminal Sanctions
The Nuited States Senate
R1124

Report of Proceedings
2008
3/12/27
BY

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Tuesday, September 9, 1975
Washington, D. C.
....

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003
(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

nash
Phone (Area 202) 544-4000
1 TESTIMONY OF PAGE
2 Bronson Tweedy 3

5 NUMBER EXHIBITS
6 Tweedy Exhibit No. 1 44
7 Tweedy Exhibit No. 2 47
8 Tweedy Exhibit No. 3 49
9 Tweedy Exhibit No. 4 50
10 Tweedy Exhibit No. 5 56
11 Tweedy Exhibit No. 6 62
12 Tweedy Exhibit No.7 65
14 (The above exhibits were retained by counsel.)

20
::
::
:::
2:
24
25

TOP SECRET

thomas/naah
Phone (Area 207) 544-64000
1
2 TOP SECRET
EXECUTIVE SESSION
3 Tuesday, September 9, 1975 1
4
5 United States Senate,
6 Select Committee to Study Governmental
7 Operations with respect to
8 Intelligence Activities,
9 Washington, D. C.
10 The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:15 p.m..
11 in Room 443, Russell Office Building, Senator Walter F.
12 Mondale presiding.

14 Present: Senator Mondale (presiding).
15 Also present: Rhett Dawson and Frederick Baron,
16 Professional Staff Members.

22
24
25

TOP SECRET

WARD
PAU
۲/
Phone (Art. 2071 344-4000
٢٠٠ TOP SECRET
Senator Mondale. Do you swear the testimony you are 2
1 about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
2 but the truth, so help you God?
3 Mr. Tweedy. I do.
4 Mr.Baron. Mr. Tweedy, are you aware that you have
5 the right to counsel here today?
6 Mr. Tweedy. I am.
7 Mr. Baron. And are you appearing voluntarily here
8 today without counsel?
9 Mr. Tweedy. I am.
10 (At this point, the hearing was removed to Room 608,
1:
12 Carroll Arms Hotel.)
13 Mr. Baron. Are you also aware that all of your
14 Constitutional rights are intact before the Committee, includ-
15 ing your Fifth Amendment rights?
16 Mr. Tweedy. I am.
17 Mr. Baron. Mr. Tweedy, are you aware that you have
18 the right to cease answering questions at any time and
19 consult with an attorney?
20 Mr. Tweedy. Yes. I gather that was implicit in what
21 you said in the Senator's office.
22 Mr. Baron. It was.
23 Now, that we are no longer in the Senator's presence
420st Strmel. St Washian, menj
24 I would like to make it clear to you that you are under no
25 obligation to continue testifying, although the Committee

TOP SECRET

NH
Phone (Arse 2021 344-4000
1 would obviously appreciate it if you would.
2 Are you willing to do so? TOP SECRET 3
3 Mr. Tweedy. I have no intention of not cooperating.
4 Mr. Baron. And you are willing to continue to testify
5 to the truth as best you can?
6 Mr. Tweedy. Indeed I will.
7 Mr. Baron. Perhaps we should begin by putting on the
8 record a bit of your background in Agency activities leading
9 to the point at which you assumed the position as Chief of
10 the African Division.
12 TESTIMONY OF BRONSON TWEEDY
12 Mr. Tweedy. I came aborad the Agency in the first of
12 May, 1947 and after training was sent to Switzerland.
13 returned in 1950 and did a series of desk jobs in what was know
14- : as the Central European Division, I guess, and went through
15
16 a number of different assignments at that time, until May
15-14
17 1 of 1953 when I went out as Chief of Station to Vienna, Austris
1 I was there until the middle of 1956 and returned very
15-1
19 briefly to the States, went to dondonas Deputy Chief of
1000、 بانه Station there. I took over as Chief of Station there in the
20 middle of 1958 and was then replaced by Frank Wisner, in
21 15-1
London early in October 1959, and I took over the
22 African Division I should think somewhere around between the
23 15th and 18th of November 1959.
24 That brings me up to date.
25 TOP SECRET

Washing,'ווחח

Prone (Arse 207) 544-4000
Mr. Baron. And how long did you serve as Chie fof TOP SECRET 4
1
2 the African Division?
3 Mr. Tweedy. Until September of '63.
4 Mr. Baron. In that position did you consult frequent
5 with people in policy-making positions at the State Department?
6 - Mr. Tweedy. Well, as I was explaining to you as we
7 were strolling around, the simple answer to that is yев.
8 These consultations would take many, many different forms.
9 On the Congo, for example, the State Dapartment
10 obviously was just as involved as practically the rest of the
11 U.S. Government and they had a Congolese task force. I
12 would attend their meetings or a representative of mine would
13 attend their meetings. They took place almost daily,
14 sometimes I guess even more than once daily.
15 Mr. Baron. During what period of time?
16 Mr. Tweedy. Oh, Lord, from the time the Congo thin;
17 really hotted up, and I am talking then particularly under the
18 Kennedy Administration, when Mennen Williams organized the
14 task force and Wayne Fredericks was his deputy; those meet-
20 ings were State's meetings, they weren't CIA meetings, they
21 weren't meetings primarily to discuss the CIA policy, but
we had to be there to maintain, to keep abreast of what the
22
23 policy was.
24 Mr. Baron. If we could focus our attention on the
25 period between the independence of the Congo in June of '60
and the announcement of the death of Lumumba in February of 1.
TOP SECRET

NW
Phone Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1 Mr. Tweedy. WAs that the month of his death?
2 Mr. Baron. The month the death was announced. 5
4 As you know, there is a lot of mystery surrounding his
5 death and the probable cause of his death. AS far as the U..
6 investigation was concerned it was January 17 or perhaps
6 January 18, 1961.
7 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.
8 Mr. Baron. What was the nature of your contact with
8 the State Department during that period of time?
9 Mr. Tweedy. My recollection of this is far less
10 Congo and far more general, as I was mentioning to you as
11 we strolled, and particularly my talks with Jim Penfield, te.
12 whom Joe Satterswate was dedicated.

14 Joe Satterswate, who was Assistant Secretary for
15 African Affairs, and Penfield and I were colleagues in Vienna
16 together. lle had the minister. But we did a great deal of
17 talking together about CIA deployment in Africa. I was
18 forming a division both at home and abroad and I had a lot
19 of things to negotiate with him about State cover for
30 لمعاتand he naturally had his views on a lot of the thin.
20 we wanted to do, and we spent a great deal of time arguing
:: these things out, making arrangements and so on and so fort!..
:: To be frank with you, I have far less recollection al
23 intimate policy talks on places like the Congo with that
24 particular group than I did after 19-what, the beginning of
25 TOP SECRET
WR

Shone Area 2021 504-6000
1 the Kennedy Administration.
2 Mr. Baron. It was during the Kennedy Administration
3 that the large scale paramilitary operations in the Congo were
4 geared up. TOP SECRET 6
5 Mr. Tweedy. All that happened then, absolutely.
5 Mr. Baron. Do you remember discussions with Livingstone
7 Merchant in the State Department before the turn of Adminis-
B trations?
9 Mr. Tweedy. I knew Livingstone Merchant but specific
10 discussions with him I really do not recall, no. Later on
1: I remember having a couple of meetings along with Mr. Rusk.
1: Mr. Baron. Did any of those meetings concern Lumumba?
13 Mr. Tweedy. No, Mr. Rusk, I think they exclusively
14 concerned Portuguese Africa.
1: Mr. Baron. Do you remember having any meetings alone
: with Herter, Secretary llerter, about Lumumba?
::: Mr. Tweedy. I am not sure I have had a meeting with Mr.
20 Herter.
:: Dr. Baron. Did you have any meetings with Secretary
:: Horter or Douglas Dillon or Livingstone Perchant?
:: Mr. Tweedy. Never met Mr. Dillon.
** Mr. Baron. About Congolese affairs?
:4 "weedy. lever met Mr. Dillon and I do not recall
25 having met with Livingstone Merchant on the Congo. I may
Have done so but I really don't recall, I had very little

TOP SECRET

Phone (Aras 207) 544-6000
1 professional contact with Mr. Merchant.
2 slightly socially.
I knew him mostly TOP SECRET 7

3 Mr. Baron. When you met regularly with Mr. Satterswate
4 or Mr. Penfield did you discuss Lumumba with them?
5 Mr. Tweedy. I am sure we discussed Lumumba in the
6 sense of which would be all the time, assessing the situa-
7 tion, assessing where Lumumba was heading, where the Congo
8 was heading. I did this with, you know, almost all of the
9 African situations, individual African country situations.
10 We would spend a great deal of time, their points of
1: view, our point of view, cur perspective, their perspective,
1: but never as an action matter that I can recall.
13 Mr. Baron. Was the assassination of Patrice Lumumba
* ever contemplated or raised in those meetings?
14 Mr. Tweedy. Never.
1: Mr. Baron. Did you meet regularly in this period
16 between Congolese independence and the announced death of
in Lumumba with people at the NSC level or people in the White
::: House?
26 Mr. Tweedy. I don't recall so at all. For example, if
:: President Eisenhower had an African representative the same
:: way President Kennedy later had, then I can't recall who he
:: was. President Kennedy had two. The first name escapes
:: me. He later went on down to South Africa as Ambassador
25 and one that I saw most of for a considerable period of

TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1 time was Carl Kazen, recently retired head of the School of
2 Advanced Studies in Princeton.
8
3 Mr. Baron. During the Eisenhower Administration did
4 you have direct contact with Gordon Gray or Andrew Goodpaster
5 with reference to Congolese affairs.
6 You are shaking your head and we have to put it on
7 the racord.
8 Mr. Tweedy. I am alsmot convinced that the answer is
9 no. I am just thinking. I know Gordon Gray quite well. I
10 don't recall ever having policy discussions with him at all,
1: nor General Goodpaster. I think the answer is certainly no.
:: Mr. Baron. You mentioned to me earlier that you had
13 attended only two National Security Council meetings in your
1: memory and that those two meetings were both long after the
1: death of Lumumba, is that correct?
:
Σ Mr. Tweedy. I can only imagine that they must have been
in because this was well into the Kennedy Administration.
wouldn't be able to put any dates on it now.
I
:: Mr. Baron. It was during the directorship of John
::: McCone at CIA?
:: Mr. Tweedy. Yes, that is without question. And
25 McBundy was at the meetings. Yes, it must have been
:4 well after the death of Lumumba, maybe even the following
25 year.

Mr. Baron. During the latter part of the Eisenhower
TOP SECRET

Phone (Arsa 2021 344-6000
TOP SECRET
1 Administration when events in Congo were heatingup, after
2 Congolese independence, what was the general atmosphere in
3 the State Department and at the CIA in relation to Lumumba,
4 the general attitude toward Lumumba?
9

5 Mr. Tweedy. Well, I think you would have to start by
6 saying what was the general assessment of the situation in
7 the Congo. Lumumba was really sort of the last thing you
8 came down to.
9 The worry in Washington about the situation in the
10 Congo was that here was the largest geographical expression
1: in Africa that thretened to go up in smoke, up because the
:. Kremlin was about to march in and take it over, not бесаиве
:: it was about to break up tribally and do all the things that
14 those African countries in their early years were at least
1: vulnerable to. The only trouble with the Congo was if it
16 happened there the side effects would have been infinitely
20 greater than, of course, if it had happened anywhere else.
:: Mr. Baron. What would those side effects have been?
:: Mr. Tweedy. All one culd do was assess those, but it
:0 would have set a precedent, for example, the neighboring
2: country by which great store was set by the West was Nigeria
:: and if the same infection crossed that border one was afraid
:: that this would go up in smoke and that in effect there
24 was a possibility of the continent disintegrating before it
25 really had had a chance to get under way under its own aegis.

TOP SECRET

Phone Ares 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1 This was the concern. 10
2 Mr. Baron. Were these political side effects only
3 that were being taken into account or were there also
4 fears for American business interests in the Congo that
5 were part of the side effects?
6 Mr. Tweedy. Insofar as my assessments were concerned,
7 and those of the Agency and any conversations I can recall
8 with the State Department, American business was just not a
9 great factor.
1C If you want to talk about business, the big factor, of
11 course, was Katanga and eventually when Tachombe threatened to
12 succeed resulting in the great involvamans of both the U... Al
13 the U.S. in the Congo affair, the fear there was that if you
14 put together the Congo without Katanga it was like construct-
15 ing a Cadillac and purposely omitting the gas station.
16 Mr. Baron. That is because Kutanga is the home of
17 most of the natural resources that are in the Congo.
18 Mr. Tweedy. That is the only thing that keeps that
19 country going.
20 Now, I don't say there weren't a lot of economic con-
21 siderations in back of that but these were political
22 economic concerns much more than anything parochial, but is
23 what was going to happen to U.S. business was not a factor inso-
24 far as I recall.
25 Mr. Baron. So the primary concern was for political

TOP SECRET

Washing

Panna (Are 7073 344-4000
TOP SECRET
11
1 stability in Africa.
2 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, political stability in Africa. In
3 a quick phrase you put your foot right on that.
4 Mr. Dawson. During the summer of 1960 you mentioned
5 earlier that in the time frame you did not think the
6 Kremlin was ready to march in there, as that was a fear with
7 you but
8 Mr. Tweedy. I don't mean to say this was nothing that
9 anybody was worred about but it was not the primary concern.
10 Mr. Dawson. But there was significant Soviet interest
11 in infiltrating and taking advantage of the situation in the
12 Congo?
13 Mr. Tweedy. I think it would be much more accurate
14 to say it was our assumption, we were not privy to Soviet
15 intentions with respect to Africa, which I suspect in those
16 days like a great many other things about African culture
17 round the globe were ill informed at that point, and un-
18 doubtedly seeking their own polcies in Africa just the way this
19 country was. It was obviously a worry.
20 Mr. Baron.. Was it also our assumption if the Soviets
21 moved into the Congo they would move on the side of Lumumba?
22 Mr. Tweedy. Oh, yes, I think there would have bean
23 little doubt in our minds that that would have been the case.
24 Mr. Baron. And is it also true that the general perception
25 at the Agency and in the State Department was that Lumumba

TOP SECRET

Phone (Arga 2021 544-6000
Σ TOP SECRET
12
1 posed the threat in the Congo beyond the mere threat of
2 political instability because of his closeness to the Soviets
3 or his willingness to accept aid from the Soviets?
4 Mr. Tweedy. It made the cheese more binding but I
5 don't think we had any information indicating there was
6 any close umbilicus between the Soviets and Lumumba but it
7 was potentially there.
8 Mr. Baron. And that potential
9 Mr. Tweedy. This increased one's nervousness about the
10 situation.
11 Mr. Baron. In your capacity as Chief of the African
12 Division to whom did you report and from whom did you receive
13 orders?
:. Mr. Tweedy. Well, the normal chain of command was
:: through DDD, Dick Bissell and
15 Mr. Baron. Would you meet regularly with Richard
16 Bissell during this period of time?
17 Mr. Tweedy. Regularly would be a big word. Not
18 necessarily that often. We might talk on the phone. To
19 say that I saw him all the time, how often I don't know. It
20 would go in fits and starts, undoubtedly but
21 Mr. Baron. In formulating actions to be taken in the
22 Congo, would you consult with Bissell before you undertook
23 any major operation.
24 Mr. Tweedy. Well, depending on what you mean by
25 TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 2021 546-4-000
6
7
6
5
2
1
TOP SECRET
major operation.
13
Major operation per se, if you are not
talking about just intelligence operations, call for in-
structions and formalization either inside the Agency or out-
side.
Mr. Baron. So any major covert action would be
formulated in consultation not only with Bissell but with the
DCI, Allen Dulles at that time, and probably higher levels
than that.
Mr. Tweedy.
I suppose the DCI, if Bissell felt that
9 was necessary, and, of course, he used to talk to the
1
1:
::
::
:.
;
DCI without my being present, and undoubtedly certain instruc-
tions I would receive from time to time undoubtedly stem from
conversations that Bissell would have had with the DCI and
funnelled down to me.
I didn't always know who talked to whom before I re-
ceived instructions.
Mr. Baron. So if you received an instruction from
Richard Bissell as DDP you would proceed to implement that
instruction on the assumption it was fully authorized above
the level of DDP?
Mr. Tweedy. I think I would proceed with it on the
basis that he was authorized to give me instructions
and it was up to him to bloody well know what he was empowered
to tell me to do.
I couldn't run his affairs for him to that extent, but

TOP SECRET

Phone (Art 207) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
14
1 by and large I reckon the Agency worked and that was the way
2 it was set up to work and that is the way it worked, but to
3 say every time Bissell talked to me he always talked to
4 Allen Dulles first I would think is nonsense.
5 Mr. Baron. You didn't consider it your duty to question
6 Bissell about the source of authority for some covert: action
7 he was asking you to undertake?
8 Mr. Tweedy. I would have never hesitated to do if
9 I felt that it was necessary to do so.
10 I can't recall having done so. He and I used to have
11 disagreements philosophically on operations. We were very
:: good friends and I never had any hesitation about telling him

13 Mr. Dawson. Could you describe that philosophical
14 difference, or is it describable?
25 Mr. Tweedy. Well it varied a lot. I think Dick was
16 by and large inclined to feel that almost anything was
in possible, you know, in the clandestine service, if they put
18 their minds to it, and my view was this wasn't the case.
19 Mr. Dawson. Thank you.
20 Mr. Baron. Did you ever discuss the question of
21 assassinating Lumumba with Richard Bissell?
22 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, this was the way the whole thing
23 came up in the first instance. I can't remember how it came
24 up except undoubtedly we had a conversation.
25 TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 2021 546-6000
:::
11:
TOP SECRET
Mr. Baron. Do you recall when it came up? 15
1
2 Mr. Tweady. No, I don't. It obviously must have
3 come up, I assume, what, the fall of 1960. But I have no
4 way of putting a date to it.
5 Mr. Baron. And what was said during that discussion or
6 perhaps I should backtrack first and ask whether this was one
7 discussion or a series of discussions?
Mr. Tweedy. Oh, we must have discussed it more than
once. I think it came up in the sense that Dick would have
said we probably better be thinking about whether it might
ever be necessary or desirable to get rid of Lumumba, in which
case we presumably should be in position to assess whether we
could do it or not successfully.
Mr. Baron. Do it, meaning carry off an assassination?
Mr. Tweedy. Yes, but it was never discussed with him
1:
in any other sense but a planning exercise, but a planning
exercise which, in other words, never were we instructed
to do anything of this kind. We were instructed to ask whether
such a thing would be feasible and to have the Chief of
Station he thinking along those lines as well.
Mr. Baron. So, in effect you were asked to move
ahead at least as far as developing the capability to
carry of an assassination if an order should be given?
Mr. Tweedy. Well, or to examine the potential for
doing that.
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Are0702) 544-4000
TOP SECRET
1 Mr. Dawson. I know that you have indicated you
2 won't be able to put a precise date to this conversation
3 with Bissell or conversations with Bissell, but maybe we can
4 narrow it down a little bit.
16
5 Would you assume that it would be after the proclama-
6 tion of the Congolese independence on June 30, 19607
7 Mr. Tweedy. Oh, yes.
8 Mr. Dawson. Would you assume it would be before
9 Lumumba's being put into U.N. protective custody on
10 September15, 19607
11 Mr. Tweedy. I think it must have been, yes. I
12 didn't realize he had gone into custody that early.
13 Mr. Baron. So then it would be sometime during the
14 summer or early fall of '607
15 Mr. Tweedy. What happened to Lumumba after that?
16 Mr. Baron. He was in protective custody at the United
17 Nations force from mid-September until late November and
18 it was in late November that he left to go traveling
19 towards Stanleyville and he was captured by Mobutu's troops
20 at that point in very early December and from early December
21 until mid-January he was in the custody of the Congolese in
22 prison and then it was in mid-January 1961 that he was
23 flown from a prison in Tysville to Katanga where his death
24 was announced shortly thereafter.
25 Mr. Tweedy. That I recall. I have got to assume it

TOP SECRET

Phone (Arse 202) 544-4000
TOP SECRET
1 was sometime after September 15th. 17
2 I don't know.
3 Mr. Baron. When you say "after"
4 Mr. Tweedy. After you put September 15 the day he
5 came under. The only thing is I have no recollection that
6 it would have happened as early as, say, early August or
7 early September.
8 Mr. Baron. It was in August or early September that
9 Lumumba was Premier of the Congo?
10 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.
11 Mr. Baron. And there was obviously a struggle for power
12 between Lumumba and Kasavubu going on.
13 Mr. Dawson. I guess the crucial question.
14 Mr. Tweedy. You have really got me at this point.
15 Mr. Dawson. It would be whether or not you would have
16 considered the plan had he been in U.N. protective custody.
17 If you assume that would be the case, then I don't think
18 any more precision in the date would necessarily be productive.
19 Mr. Treedy. My whole recollection of the thing would
20 be that only purpose of the exercise would have been to have
21 a plan when he was in nobody's custody.
22 Mr. Baron. That would have been before
23 Mr. Tweedy. That is the only thing that makes sense
24 to me, September, because
25 Mr. Baron. Well, I will go on.
26 In a moment I will show you some cable traffic that

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-4000
TOP SECRET
1 went back and forth between headquarters and the Congo after
2 he was in U.N. custody to see if that refreshes your recollec-
3 tion about the general attitude with regard to Lumumba at
4 that time.
18
5 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.
6 Mr. Baron. But, you are saying now, that it would
7 only make sense to you that
8 Mr. Tweedy. In retrospect nothing makes sense to me
9 but
10 Mr. Baron. that this initial consideration of the
11 feasibility of the assassination of Lumumba between Bissell
12 and yourself?
13 Mr. Tweedy. I should have thought that would have
14 been during the period when he was in effect in power. I
15 should have thought, but the record may prove me wrong.
16 Mr. Baron. Did you have any discussion with Bissell
17 where he indicated that his own consideration of the assassina-
18 tion of Lumumba had moved beyond the realm of possibility to
19 an actual plan that he was prepared to carry out or taking
20 steps to carry out.
21 Mr. Tweedy. I cannot recall a conversation with
22 Bissell where in effect he said, let's move from A to B or C
23 to D or something like this. I do not recall that. My
24 recollection of the whole interval when this was under con-
25 sideration was that it was a planning interval and at no point

TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 3071 344-4000
TOP SECRET
1 can I recall that I even felt it was imminent that somebody
2 would say go, (a) we never came up with a plan that was
3 go-able. or anything really very close to it. It was
19
4 always my assumption that at the time anything like this should
5 occur there would have been some kind of real focus on the
6 problem at probably a very considerable policy level within
7 the Agency at which somebody would have said something
8 more about it and it never occurred to me I would get a call
9 or Bissell would ask me to come down to his office and say
10 go to it.
11 Nor were we ever in position where he said that I would
12 merely implement plan so-and-во. We never got that far.
13 Mr. Baron. You didn't have any action plans for
14 assassination of Lumumba that you had prepared or were aware
15 of?
16 Mr. Tweedy. No. Planning, yes, but nothing that ever
17 got anywhere.
18 Mr. Baron. What kind of planning was done?
19 Mr. Tweedy. It was mostly the kind of thing where one
20 asked the Chief of Station to keep in mind what sort of
21 accers one might ever have had to Lumumba for whatever purpose.
22 It was this kind of thing, as best I recollect.
23 Mr. Baron. Did you send cables raising the question of
24 gaining access to Lumumba for the purpose of assassinating
25 him?

TOP SECRET

WAWD
PAUL
....
mone (Ares 2021 344-4000
5
1 Mr. Tweedy.
TOP SECRET
20
I suspect that was the first cable that
2 ever went out. In other words, the first cable that ever
3 went out to Larry Hedgman. He must have realized, he would
4 have been perfectly clear on his end, the way one's minds were:
5 running even though it was purely a contingency.
6 Mr. Baron. I am sorry. I don't think I understood
7 that.
8 You say the first cable that went out.
9 Mr. Tweedy. That was the first way that Hedgman was
10 ever advised that there was any thinking of that kind in
1: Washington, was via our cable. I am sure he wasn't back in
12 the States over anything of this kind.
13 Mr. Baron. Today you distinctly remember a cable sent?
14 Mr. Tweedy. I think I remember that much more distinct-
15 ly than anything I remember in the last few minutes that it
16 was a cable which asked him to be thinking of that.
17 Mr. Baron. That was pursuant to your conversation
18 with Mr. Bissell?
19 Mr. Tweedy. That was.
20 Mr. Baron. Did you send that cable or Mr. Bissell
21 sand that cable.
22 Mr. Tweedy. It probably would have been a cable I
23 wouldhave written and probably released by him.
24 Mr. Baron. Do you know what was in that cable?
25 Mr. Tweedy. God knows, I don't.

TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 2071 564-6000
TOP SECRET
1 Mr. Baron. For the effect of the language in the cable?
2 Mr. Tweedy. The effect of the language in the cable
3 would be to get Hedgman to be thinking along these lines. 21

4 Mr. Dawson. Would you describe the purpose?
5 Mr. Tweedy. It would have been the eventuality that we
6 might wish to get rid of Mr. Lumumba personally.
7 Mr. Dawson. Is that language you think might have
8 been used or that is how you think it might have been done?
9 Mr. Tweedy. I couldn't even start to reproduce the
10 cable.
11 Mr. Baron. Did you send a number of such cables to
12 the Chief of Station?
13 Mr. Tweedy. I imagine there were a few over a period
14 of time. It was not an intensive correspondence as I
15 remember it.
16 Mr. Baron. It wouldn't be thenormal practice to
17 have an intensive correspondence on such a sensitive subject,
18 would it?
19 Mr. Tweedy. I don't know. It is the only time I ever
20 had one but I have had very sensitive subjects, operationally
21 sensitive subjects that I have dealt with in extensive
22 cables over a very long period of time, but nothing of this
23 nature whatsoever.
24 Mr. Baron. Were these cables from headquarters to
25 the Chief of Station in Leopoldville sent in a specially

TOP SECRET

Phone Area 207) 544-4000