157-10014-10005
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Date : 08/06/95
Page : 1

					JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
						IDENTIFICATION FORM

							AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10005
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 01-H-05

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCSGO
FROM : ANGLETON, JAMES
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 06/19/75
PAGES : 113
SUBJECTS : ANGLETON, JAMES

					USSR
					CIA
					FBI
					NOSENKO, YURI
					CIA, RELATIONSHIP WITH WC
					OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 1

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32423393 Page 1

76000011404
NW 50933 DOCIU:32423393 Page 2

ORMATION
TOP SECRET
The Nuited States Senate
R378

Report of Proceedings
INVENTORICO
ON
2/15/77
BY
Hearing held before
Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, June 191975
Washington, D. C.
(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003
(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

76000

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Arse 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

1 CONTENTS
2 TESTIMONY OF PAGE
3 James Angleton 2
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
TOP SECRET
NW 50933 Docla.32423393 Page 3

shelburne
nash
76000011406
WARD & PAUL
410 First Street. S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 2021 544-40000
2
1
TOP SECRE
EXECUTIVE SESSION
3 Thursday, June 19, 1975
4
5 United States Senate,
6 Select Committee to Study Government.
7 Operations with Respect to
8 Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.
9
10 The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:20 p.m.,
11 in Room S.123, The Capitol, Senator John G. Tower, presiding.
12 Present: Senators Tower (presiding), Baker and Mathias.
13 Also present: William Miller, Staff Director; Frederick
14 A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel; Charles Kirbow and David
15 Aaron, Professional Staff Members.
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
2.5
TOP SECRET
NW 509JJ
Faye 4

NW 5093
Phone (Ares 207) 544-6
1
2
ار
3
4
5
6
TOP SECRET
Senator Tower. Mr. Angleton, I understand that you came
on very short notice. And I appreciate your accommodating
the Committee.
You will have to be sworn.
Would you rise, please, and raise your right hand?
Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about
7 to give before this committee is the truth, the whole truth and
8 nothing but the truth, so help you God?
9 Mr. Angleton. I do.
10 Senator Tower. Counsel, you may proceed.
11
12 TESTIMONY OF JAMES ANGLETON
Mr. Schwarz. I would like to first get your name and
13 address on the record.
14 Mr. Angleton. James Angleton, Arlington, Virginia.
15 Mr. Schwarz. Just some procedural matters. You have a
16 right to counsel, you understand that?
17 Mr. Angleton. Yes, I understand it.
18 Mr. Schwarz. And if at any time you want to stop to ob-
19 tain counsel you have a right to do that. And if you wish
20 to claim any of your Constitutional rights you have a right
21 to do that, you understand those things also, do you?
22
76000
WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003
DOCIU.J2ラメリブン
23
Mr. Angleton. Yes, I understand them.
Mr. Schwarz. You were employed at the CIA for what
24 period of time?
25 Faye
Mr. Angleton. From the beginning until December, the
TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 2021 544-4000
4
5
TOP SECRET
1 end of December.
2 Mr. Schwarz. 19747
3 Mr. Angleton. 1974.
Mr. Schwarz. And were you the Chief of Counterintelligenco
at the CIA for that period?
6 Mr. Angleton. I was.
7 Mr. Schwarz. For that entire period of time?
8 Mr. Angleton. No, from 1954.
9 su also responsible for relations
10 with Israeli intelligence agencies?
11 Mr. Angleton. That is correct.
12 Mr. Schwarz. Can you briefly state the connection, if any,
13 between your counter intelligence work and the Israeli work,
14 or put even more generally, how did you happen to have both
15 those jobs?
16 Mr. Angleton. Well, if I could ask you some clarifica-
17 tion, are we addressing ourselves here in terms of
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
76 0 0 0
NBR
11173
WARD & PAUL
19
18 this meeting to the Szule business, or are we trying to take
up everything?
20 Mr. Schwarz tlo, we are not going to try to take up
21 everything. We may try to take up a few things beyond the
22 Szulc business. What we are trying to do
23 Mr Angleton. I can direct my answers to you better
24 f I know more where we are going.
25 Mr. Schwarz. We are going to the Szulc business, but it
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 Docid: 32423393 Page 6

NBR
7600011129
WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Ares 2021 544-600
4
3
ان
2
TOP SECRET
it would be helpful to have a few background first.
Senator Baker. If I may say so, so that Mr. Angleton
will not be taken by surprise, there are one or two things that
I would like to discuss. The nature of that material would be
5 similar to what you have already discussed with Rockefeller,
6 having to do with the Oswald situation and other things.
7 Mr. Angleton. Well, to begin with, I went into OSS in
8 1943, in 1943 from the infantry. And then Iwas assigned to an
9 embryonic counter elligence ce unit under General
10 Donovan. My immediate chief was James R. Murphy, who had been
11 a protegee and obtained his law degree in General Donovan's
12 office. And he is a practicing attorney here in Washington.
13 And he was Chief of X-2, which was the counter intelligence.
14 And during that time a number of us were put together who
15 had never had any experience in the subject. And that included
16 people such as Jonnie Oaks, who was the head of the editorial
17 page of the New York Times, and Ben Wells and a tremendous
18 cross-section of American life.
19 And there was a training intensive in this country, and
20 I was sent to London. And the purpose of that was to ab-
21 sorb the British experience, and more important the breaking
22 of German codes.
23 The breaking of the German codes, which is relevant to
24 our activity, was really done in England. And by way of
25 digression, the Germans were using a receiver machine called
NW 5 50955 DocId:32423393 Page 7
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 207) 544-6000
8
Olri
9
10
11
12
13
one sense.
C
C
00092
5
6
NBR),
WARO & PAUL
Enigma, the blue prints of which were originally obtained by
a Frenchman. And I might add that the Frenchman never re-
ceived credit for it. And yet that perhaps was the most
4 single important breakthrough of the entire war. And he had
obtained it about eitht to nine or ten years prior to the out-
break of war, when it was non-operative. And he had the
prescience to know that the systems could only be one thing,
that it would be operative in a time of war.
I give this digression simply to point out that the
fruits of that breakthrough would first go to the military
And the counter intelligence
and the military operations
use of it would be the bottom of the list of priorities, in
14
15
16
But it would mean that a compromise of the material
in any fashion to the Germans would destroy the military
uses. And during the war or when the Germans went into the
17
18
war, they brought it up from 10 percent recovery to about
100 percent
410 Forst Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19
20
21
And believe it was in the neighborhood of some 22,000
operational messages from the German high command. I know
the Battle of Tobruk was fought on six intercepts.
22
So our job was to make use of the counter intelligence
23
for the purpose of playing back German agents to their high
24/command. And this was an elaborate deception. And when the
war ended I would say that 99 percent of all reporting agents
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423393 Page 8

NW 30933
0009
WARD A PAUL
NBR
Phone (Area 202) 544-600
TOP SECRET
that the Germans had were under our control. And in fact
2 when many of the German hierarchy tried to escape to the
3 west under aliases, their only point of contact for most
documentation and money was to our agent under control.
4
5 And it was called the Safe Haven program.
6 So London was in a sense a staging area with full access
7 to British, or the fruits of British activity, going back
8 through their entire history. And it was the advance head-
9 quarters for General Donovan, and Mr. Murphy.
10 I was then sent to Italy in 1943. And I took over the
11 counter intelligence for Italy the OSS, AFIHO, Allied Forces
12 Ileadquarters.
13 Subsequently I became the Chief of OSS Italy.
14 I want to say that my work then became more broad in terms of
15 espionage and all the other branches of OSS. And I re-estab-
16 lished the counter/intelligence services. And I brought the
17 French back into existence, particularly the man who
18 originally acquired the code, and who worked on it for many
19 years. And by this time it was shifted to the Saudi bloc.
20 I left Italy in 1947 or 1948 and came back, and was
21 discharged and went into the Agency immediately. And during
22 the period I was in the Agency, of course, I had both agent
23 operations, long distance operations, and counter intelligence,
24 and some sabotage, black propaganda, infiltration.
25 A And probably the first overnight operation that there was
410 First Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003
DOCIU: 32423393 Page 9
TOP SECRET

Phone (Ares 202) 344-60
3
ار
4
5
1
TOP SECRE
which was known as Plan Hope, which is simply putting the
Italians in an airplane and having them fly over to the
Roumanian border and make very primitive photographs of the
whole region.
And I was sent back to the Air Force. And then I had
code operations, embassy penetrations, and so on.
So, in a sense the resuscitation of the Italian service,
6
изк
7
8
C
7 6 0 0 0 11412
WARO & PAUL
9
Army and Navy, Air Force, and the Minister of the Interior,
was American rehabilitation. And am not going to go into
10
11
12
13
14
the details of the political situation.
civil war in Greece, and the revival of the international
Brigade and in fact the Soviets had built up, when they were
not fighting the war, in the post-wat period, assassinations,
and instability.
There was the
15
16
17
18
And throughout this we had very close supervision from
Mr. Murphy, and General Donovan. And we had special interest
in the Vatican, and what was happening in Berlin behind the
Curtain.
410 Forst Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19
20
And the then acting Secretary of State for the Vatican,
Montini who is the present Pope. And so there was much
21
to do through our channels, and General Donovan, with Montini,
22
the Rope, who is now the Pope, one of the basic problems was
23
the cold war. We did not buy the cold war, it came to us
24
25
and we worked with the Germans, and as we broke down the
Fopposition, we began to find that we were not getting the
TOP SECRET
NW 30933 DUCIQ:32423393 Page 10

NW 5093
DOCIU.JZ4ZJJ9J
7
NBR
1190000 9 2
13
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Ares 2023 544-4
5
6
4
TOP SECRET
1 Germans, we were getting the Soviets.
But the penetrations and the operations which wegran
3 during the military phase began to take on a character of
their own in the civilian phase in the very long term Soviet
objectives against the U.S. in particular, and against the
allies
7 And then I got into all fields of ylabor, subversion,
8 illegal immigrants, and then revolution. I was in Greece.
9 And our penetrations at that period were fairly high level and
10 sophisticated, because of the reaction to Stalin.
11 And as the Soviet troops occupied new territories, it
12 was faced with these ambiguities, the defectors coming
13 over to us at very high levels.
14 And in the course of this, of course, was the Israeli
15 immigration. Technically we were still a part of AFHQ, which
16 was a combined and Allied Headquarters. And the British desires
17 were that our activities be directed in supporting their
18 responsibilities in the Middle East, and, therefore, to pre-
19 vent the immigration.
20 And I think the only policy cable that was ever re-
21 ceived during that period was one we sent to Mr. Murphy, and
22 through General Donovan to the President. That
23 was where we exercised our influences on the Italians to
24 prevent immigration. And they addressed themselves to this
25 issue, and they came back with an ambiguity, but it leaned
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Page I
TOP SECRET

Phone (Arte 207) 544-6
NBR
11111
WARD & PAUL
00092
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
TOP SECRET
2 toward the general proposition that we should not
discourage the British nor hurt the British directly, but
3 we should not interfere with the Italians to support the
British position.
4
5 And so my dealings were with Admiral Maugeria, who
6 had been Chief of the Italian Naval Intelligence, but was
7 then the Commanding Admiral of the Turanian Fleet generally
8 south, where all these illegal immigrants collected and were
9 sent down.
10 And then they blew up the Irgum, and blew up the British
11 embassy in Rome, who were my opposite numbers. And the man
12 with whom we had set up as the Italian intelligence through
13 the rest of the Israelis we had the members of the
14 group, and then we had the dilemma again as to whether we
15 turned them over to the British authorities, and so on.
16 And we were in a position to make decisions one way or
17 the other And eventually we came down on the side of re-
18 leasing them.
19 And there is so much more of it. I am trying to keep
20 the thread of it.
21 Mr. schwarz. So you developed some kind of a relation-
22/ship, perhaps a friendly relationship, with persons connected
23 with the new State of Israel or the hoped for state of
2/4 Israeli back in the 1940's?
25 Mr. Angleton. That is right.
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 Docld:32423393 Page 12
1

00092
1
Phone (Ares 2023 544-6
4
5
NBRI •
15
WARD A PAUL
TOP SECRET
10
2
15
3
7
8
9
10
Mr. Schwarz. And was there any other significant reason
why you kept the Israeli account, if that is the right/ex-
pression?
Mr. Angleton. There wasn't one after I left there,
nor was there one here in Washington.
But the other side of the Israeli problem was that you
had thousands coming from the Soviet Union. And you had the
Soviets making use of the immigration for the purpose of
sending illegal agents into the West and breaking down all
the travel control, identifications and so on.
11
12
And so there was both a security problem and a political
problem. And one of my men married, I might say, the head of
13
the Zionist movement in Italy, the underground.
So I had
14
a connection to this man.
He was very important.
15
So, coming back to Washington, I was Special Assistant
16
to Colonal Donald/IH? Galloway, who was head of the
17
18
clandestine side and covered the world, on all sides of
clandestine activity.
19
And subsequently I was Chief of Operations for Es-
20 pionage
21
And in 1954 I had a special operational unit, and was
22
made head of the counter intelligence.
23
24
25
Mr. Schwarz. In the period beginning in 1954 and lasting
until 1974, when you left the Agency, did you have any
relationship
is the Israeli account the wrong way to say it?
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 Docld:32423393 Page 13
TOP SECRET

00092
9
WARO & PAUL
Phone (Ares 202) 544-64
NBRIO
TOP SECRET
Mr. Angleton. It is all right. It is as good as ny
2
Other.
Mr. Schwarz. Did you have any relationship with the
7
Mr. Schwarz.
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
4 Israeli account?
5 There was no
Mr.Angleton. No. That began in 1951.
relationship between the Agency and the Israeli intelligence.
You mean at all, or prior to 1951.
Mr. Angleton. There wasn't any from 1947
Mr. Schwarz. Then it began in 1951. And all
1946 on.
I am trying to establish and not spend a lot of time with it,
is, do you have any relationship with Israel, Israeli intelli-
gence, or the Israeli account on behalf of the Agency between
1951 and 1974.
Mr. Angleton. It was resonstituted in 1951. And I was the
Teddy
negotiator of the arrangement. The Mayor of Jerusalem, Pete
16 ela
Kollek, was at the other end of the negotiation. He was
17 stationed in Washington. But during the Jewish Agency period.
18 he was head of the intelligence in Turkey, during the war and
19 prior.
20 Mr. Miller. How was that agreement negotiated?
21 Mr Angleton. It was negotiated by finding waat
22 dis we have in common. It was reviewed by Admiral Hillenkoetter
who was then Director. And he was to be succeeded by General
23
24 Walter Bedell Smith. And the decision was made during the
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
25 war that Bedell Smith was to take over, and Allen Dulles returne
মW 50933
Docia: 32423393
Page 14
TOP SECRET

NBRI
76000011417
WARD & PAUL
410 Fiest Street. S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003
mone (Ares 202) 54
4
3
TOP SECRET
to this activity, that we would go ahead and re-establish a
relationship. And after a lot of bureaucratic problems, they
gave me the account.
Mr. Miller. What ws the nature of the arrangement that
wasagreed upon between the two services?
Angleton. In most simplistic terms, they were in-
5
6
7
8
9
formed that we would not work with them against the Arabs,
that we would work with them on Soviet intelligence and
Soviet bloc Intelligence and communism, where it existed.
10
Mr. Schwarz. Did that agreement
which I take it was
11
more flexible that
but did it remain in effect throughout
12
the period of your service with the Agency?
13
Mr. Angleton.
More or less.
14
Mr. Miller.
Was this agreement in the form of a
17
15
paper?
16
Mr. Angleton.
Paper and operations, discussion.
M Miller. And under whose authority was the agree-
17
18
ment made?
19
Mr. Angleton.
Under the authority of the Director of
20
Central Intelligence, and the Prime Minister of Israel on
21
the other side.
22
Mr. Miller. And this involved the exchange of resources
23
of both countries?
24
Mr. Angleton.
The term "resources" is not quite
25
correct.
Everything except their own people.
It was giving
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DOCICF332423393
Page 15

