157-10014-10125 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 7/7/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10125

RECORD SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-31

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
ΤΟ :
TITLE:

DATE: 03/10/1976
PAGES: 78

SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: CCBOX 324

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 1

AGENCY : SSCIA
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 08/07/95
Page : 1
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10125
RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-31

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
TO :
TITLE
:
DATE: 03/10/76
PAGES: 78
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS:
REFERRED
POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: CCBOX 324

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 2

TOP SECRET
Vol. 2 OF 3
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject
to Criminal Sanctions..

The United States Senate

Report of Proceedings
R2829

Hearing held before
Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Wednesday, March 10, 1976

Washington, D. C

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, SE
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003
(202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 3

WARD/smnl
TOOP SECRET
1

1
FOREIGN AND MILITARY SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING

2

3: Wednesday, March 10, 1976

4

5 United States Senate,

6 Select Committee to Study Governmental
7 Operations with Respect to
8 Intelligence Activities,
9 Washington, D. C.
10 The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:45 o'clock

11 p.m., in Room S-407, the Capitol, the Honorable Walter D.

12 Huddleston presiding.
13 Present: Senators Huddleston (presiding), Hart of
14 Colorado and Mathias.
15 Staff: William G. Miller, Staff Director, and David
16 Aaron, Joseph diGenova, Lynn Davis, William Bader, Elizabeth

17 Culbreath, Charles Kirbow, Rick Inderfurth, Pat Shea, Elliot

18 Maxwell and Al Quanbeck, Professional Staff Members,
19

20

21

22

23

24

25
TOD SECDET
NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 4

1

2.
TOP SECRET
3
And then the question is whether or not there is a prohi-
bition on printing in the English language.

3 Mr. Bader. And as I heard the consensus this morning,

4 we would not move to that recommendation for a prohibition.
5 I did_not hear whether on the distribution this would be by

6 law, though I took it it was to be by law, though I can be
corrected on that.

7 Mr. Kirbow. I don't think we addressed that this morning.
8 Mr. Chairman, on these that we considered
to be rather that we have a fairly light record on or that
9.
10 we are not too sure what the future holds, one of the members

11 that I rode over with on the car suggested that perhaps in those
12 instances we could recommend fairly strongly whatever we want

13 the followon people to do to ensure that the recommendation

14 does not create havoc within the Agency or does not leave the
15 rights of citizens unprotected.

16 But that is not a cop out. It is something that you
17 frequently do, say, let us reserve this for the permanent

18 oversight committee or for whatever other group. We may have
all the information we need.

19 Senator Huddleston. Let them make the determination whether

20 or not it should be a statute.

21 Mr.Kirbow. Determine whether in the law whether it is
22

23 working all right under the set of regulations.

24 Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, may I say in this instance in

25 the publishing trade there is no lack of record? The evidence
TOD REPRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 5

TOP SECRET
2
1
2
3
4
5
PROCEEDINGS
Senator Huddleston. I call the Committee to order.
Mr. Aaron. I believe Bill Bader had the temerity to
summarize where we stand.
Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, where I think we are at the
6 moment is taking the three major issues before the Subcommittee
7 in the order they were presented, and discussed this morning,

8 the first being the academic issue, and as I heard the Subcom-

9 mittee this morning, then I will have another go at the
10 options, give enough options in the option paper and bring it

11 back before the Committee for a further look before we go on.
12 Senator Huddleston. By Friday.

13 Mr. Bader. By Friday, without question.

14 I think by this time we will all have -- we will try to
15 include a positive option, that is to say,to approve if not.

16 applaud the expanded efforts of FRD to undertake these activi-
17 ties, or at least to endorse them.

18 Now, going to the second was the covert use of books and

19 publishing houses. We discussed two recommendations: one which
20 I believe here the Committee has agreed to, and that is a

21 prohibition on the distribution or subsidy of any books,

22 magazines or other publications not attributed to the CIA in-
23 side the United States.
24 Senator Huddleston. I think we can all accept that, can't
25 we.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 6

TOP SECRET
4
well. There is no dispute from the Agency.

3 Senator Huddleston. Well, is the law inconsistent with
1 and inquiry into it has been thorough, and I think we know this
2
4 the statute on the information service?

5 Mr. Bader. It is the same thing. I would recommend,

6. Mr. Chairman, that this would be by law, by statute.

7 Senator Huddleston. On the publication.
8 Mr. Bader. On the publication.

9 Senator Mathias. I would support that.
10 Senator Huddleston. I think Gary Hart would also, so I

11 think we will make that recommendation, that this one on the
12 academics is the one we are not sure of.
13 Mr. Bader. That's the one we would go forward with, and
14 now we are moving to I would also reiterate that in our

15 session the other night, I took it as agreement that the

16 recommendation by statute the CIA should be prohibited from
17 making operational use of all educational and cultural

18 grantees of all U.S. Government sponsored programs, this was the
19 issue which was raised of government funded programs such as
20 the Fulbright program.
21 Senator Huddleston And that's either already a regulation

22 or a directive or something to that effect.
23 Mr. Aaron. Certain categories.
24 Mr. Bader. Certain categories.
25 Mr. Kirbow. That is brand new ground.
TAD REPORT.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 7

1.
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
TOP SECRET
5.
Mr. diGenova. The John McCloy exceptions to that rule, they
are the only ones that are protected.
Mr. Aaron. That justifies Charles' view that there are
some similarities between Ford Foundation and Government
sponsored activities.
Mr. Bader. Where our discussion was left before lunch
was on the question of the covert use of U.S. journalists and
media institutions, and as it was laid out, it was indicated
that the CIA's intended internal prohibition on the use of the
media extended to the internal prohibitions on the use, opera-
tional use of individuals, American and foreign, who were
accredited to American media organizations.
As I heard it this morning, what we were discussing and
moving to was to extend that prohibition to cover all American
individuals and media organizations, and that the question then
:
16 was whether this would be recommended to be something done in
17 law or a recommendation, or an insistence, if you will, to the

18 Agency that it further amend its internal directives, its
19 50-10, to put all media personnel, American media personnel on

20 the prohibited list, and that is I think where we were.
21 Senator Huddleston. I think that's an accurate statement.

22 That's where we were.
23. I had expressed a thought that I thought that it ought to

24 be expanded to include all, but we should hold off on the

25 statute business for the time being.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 8

TOP SECRET
6
Senator Mathias. My role here seems to be the Devil's
1
2 advocate.

3 Senator Huddleston. Good.

4 Senator Mathias. There is no question about the writing

5 American press or the value in print domestically. Maybe the

6 role, any legitimate role that news men could, journalists,
7 writers could fulfill is available through the information
8 agencies, USIA and groups of that sort.

9 So does anybody know whether there is any real need
10 for allowing some latitude, which is not covered by situations

11 that can be envisioned under USIA or other programs?

12 Mr. Kirbow. Well, Senator, the one that I discussed earlier
13 that I probably didn't make my point well because no one
14 seemed to have picked it up, is we do, by the words here, if I
15 understand Mr. Bader, prohibit an American citizen living in

16 Brussels and working for a local newspaper there from having
17 anything to do with the CIA.

18 Senator Huddleston. No we don't, do we?
19 You mean by his extension?

20 Mr. Kirbow. Yes, sir.

21 Senator Huddleston. But not by

22 Mr. Kirbow. But wasn't that what you wanted to put in
23 the law, that you didn't know if you wanted
24 Senator Mathias. This is the point I wanted to raise
25 here.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 9
TAR SPART

TOP SECRET
7
1 Mr. Kirbow. That kind of relationship is something that
2 we should stay away from because I don't see any harm in it,

3 nor do I think the record demonstrates any harm in it. I don't
4 see I don't know how in the world this person doing that

5 taints the minds of the American reading public, which is

6 apparently what you are trying you're not trying to protect
7 the newsman. You are trying to protect the reader who doesn't
8 know that what he's getting is being spoonfed to him from the
9 CIA, and I don't know why we would be so concerned about
10 protecting newsmen from working, or prohibiting them from
11 working, because I think they have a right to do that as
12 American citizens, just as they do to work with the Department
13 of Defense or any other agency.

14 Mr. Bader. You would then rescind the Agency's standing
15 prohibition?
16 :
Mr. Kirbow. I just don't think you ever prohibit it in

17 law.

18 Mr. diGenova. Are you talking bout an affiliated,
19 accredited journalist, because that's what the Agency regulation
20 deals with. It doesn't deal with an American citizen. It

21 deals with an accredited person, whether he is a foreign
22 national or an American.

23 Mr. Bader. To an American media organization...

24 Mr. diGenova. But that's not the example Charles gave
25 you.
TAP APPART
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 10

TOP SECRET
8.
Mr. Kirbow. Well, perhaps I misunderstand the extension
1.
2 that you, your full recommendation.
3 Do you want to go beyond where the administration is in
4 their position?
5 Mr. Bader. I am recommending to go beyond where the

6 Administration is at this stage, to extend the operational
7 prohibition on the part of CIA to use American Americans in
8 the media

9 Mr. Kirbow. Wherever located.
10 Mr. Bader. Where they are using them undercover, at this

11 stage, to the extent that it is a cover proposition.
12 Senator Huddleston. Even if they are in foreign media?
13 Mr. Bader. Yes, sir.

14 Senator Huddleston. And even though all of their
15 activities are related to foreign; they are not writing for
16 American news services.

17 Mr. Bader. Alternately, they could be with American
18 media organizations.

19 Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, I don't think there is a single

20 shred of evidence on our record that that is in any way wrong-
21 doing or in any way adversely affects the rights of American
22 citizens. Clearly it will prohibit or could prohibit in the
23 future the proper use of an individual that could be essential
24 to the intelligence collection processes of the CIA, and it
25 singles out a specific agency which is not doing any harm to
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 11

0
TOP SECRET
9
1 the American citizenry, and says no, you cannot do this because

2 you happen to be a secret organization.
3 Senator Mathias. If I wanted to do it, Charlie, I think

4 I could work out a scheme. I would hire a prominent American
5 columnist to go and live in Paris, as Art Buchwald did, for

6 example.
7 Mr. Kirbow. And to pick off his columns and run them

8 in the New York Times.
9 Senator Mathias. And run them in the Paris Trib first,

10 and then let the domestic press pick him up...
11 Mr. Kirbow. But if he's in the Paris Trib, that's an
12 affiliated U.S.

13 Mr. Aaron. Well, suppose he writes for the Financial
14 Times?

15 Senator Mathias. Well, you could work out an echo program
16 if you wanted.

17 Senator Huddleston. Well, the basic point, instead
18 of picking instances, it seems to me, is whether or not as an

19 official policy of the United States Government we want an
20 institution such as the press with all it means and all it is

21 supposed to be in American with its constitútional provisions and
22 whatever, to be subverted to the secret, clandestine operation
23 that it can; Anytime we put any prohibition anywhere, we are

24 eliminating somebody as a potential agent. You can't use
25 that as a guideline.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 12
TAAPPAAT

TOP SECRET
10
1 Mr. Kirbow. These people are not necessarily subverted.

2 Senator Huddleston. I'm talking about the institution of

3 the free press being subverted, not the individual.
4 Mr. Kirbow. I'll extend that one further. I don't see

5 how using them for cover, which has no direct effect, like the
6 example I guess you gave, Senator, of a vice president of a
7 bureau of some sort who has nothing to do with the writing or

8 editing or anything; he is the business head of the operation
9 just like any other corporation. This thing extends to that.
10 Senator Huddleston. He may have something do with the

11 selection of the people who do write.
12. Mr. Kirbow. Well, if you could give us an abuse that we

13 are trying to correct, or some reason for it?
14 Mr. Bader. It's not a question of abuse, it's a question

15 of the use, the operational use of an institution such as

16 the press for operational purposes.
17 Mr. Kirbow. Well, explain then, and perhaps I'm going

18 explain the sanctity of the press if it is not to protect an

19 uninformed reader from having his mind tainted by the relation-

20 ship. What is the sanctity of the press as an organization?
21 It is not sanctity like the church and state. I just don't
22 see the record for this.

23 Senator Huddleston. Well, the clergy and the press I think
24 are institutions.

25 Mr. Kirbow. Well, I think the clergy and maybe the
TAP REARET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 13.

TOP SECRET
11
1 academic, like you say, that teaches the student directly,

2 but a businessman who happens to have elected going into the
3 business of running a newspaper or a magazine, to be singled

4 out and say you as a patriotic American are proscribed against
5 doing any business, and if you are going to do it with an agency,
6 you should do it with the whole United States Government. I
7 don't see how we can single out the CIA and not single out

8 military or FBI.
9 Mr. Aaron. Well, I think the domestic group will have --

10 may well have some recommendations regarding the FBI's covert
11 use of American media.
12. Mr. Kirbow. Well, domestic media, obviously.
13 Mr. Aaron. I would like to say, to take Charles'
:
14 example of an American working for a foreign press, and what

15 the problem is. I think the problem is that you have two
16 kinds of problems with the press. One is the fact, if it is
17 operating domestically, if it is working for American media
18 institutions, it is clear that they are subject to some

19 manipulation or at least questionable manipulation, and there
20 are issues in people's minds as to its integrity.
21 Now, the question goes beyond that to what about people

22 who might be working for some foreign American journalists,
23 American writers or what have you, working for foreign media

24 institutions. There you have a somewhat more extended
25. situation. But it seems to me that what you have is the
TOP SECDET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 14

TOP SECRET
12
1 possibility of the American press getting discredited, having

2 problems of being able to perform its normal functions in the

3 world and performing in the United States because it is part
4 of a clandestine intelligence organization.

5 Mr. Kirbow. Don't you think that's an individual right

6 that a person has the right to exercise both ways, instead of
7 one way?
8 Mr. Aaron. Charles, what I think I have told the

9 Committee, I have a real problem with the concept of the
10 American people having the right to spy, somehow, and these

11 prohibitions don't go to what people are allowed to do on
12 the outset. They go to what the Government is allowed to do.
13 Mr. Maxwell. Well, let's take a different kind of

14 example.
15 What would happen if in some way and it's not, I think,

16 impossible to imagine an American citizen was writing full
17 time for the Communist Party paper in Italy or Portugal or
18 France.
19 Now, that obviously would be covered by the example that

20 Bill has provided as a prohibition.
21 There are two questions. One is whether the person has

22 any real operational use that you want to preserve, and second,
23 whether it goes to the question that David presents, which is
1

24 the possible contamination of the American press, which seems
25 a difficult extension in that example, as well as the possibility
TAR READERT
NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 15

TOP SECRET
i
13
1
of distortion, the flowback problem in America.
2
3
4
5
6
:
7
8
9
is obviously of line drawing:
And the second problem seems to be, with an example like
that, is that it seems to there is very little stock in the
argument, because the argument about distortion of what goes
on in foreign countries and people's perceptions is at the heart
of the question of whether the CIA or any government agency
should be engaged in- propaganda, because it is quite possible
the propaganda gets picked up in the same way, and the question
how do you want to draw the
10
line.
11
12.
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
It strikes me that there may be better ways to draw the
line than the suggested prohibition that Bill has for any
American, regardless of status, or who they write for or what
they are doing.
Mr. Kirbow. By having citizenship as an American
Mr. Bader. Well, you misunderstood me. I was putting out
the various possibilities.
Let's turn to the text for just a moment and maybe that
will help.
First turn to 61. Let's try to get some idea of what the
problem is before we get to the semantics of it. All right,
just let me go through this, then we'll see what is actually
being recommended here.
I have confused you, obviously, by giving a series of
possibilities, not what the recommendations are.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 16
TAR
SPAR

TOP SECRET
14
1 "Ten U.S. news organizations and five U.S. publishing

2 houses provide cover for CIA agents abroad. Four of the

3 organizations do not know that they provide this cover."
4 Then there are some examples.
5 Mr. Kirbow. Meaning management or individual?

6 Mr. Bader. Management.

7 Mr. Kirbow. At any level.

8 Mr. Bader. At any level.

9 Mr. Kirbow. All right.
10 Mr. Bader. Then there are some examples of the kinds of

11 relationships that the CIA officer engages in intelligence lligence
12 collection under cover as a roving international news corres-
13 pondent, a CIA officer under cover as a European representative
14 of an American company while working as a stringer for a

15 United States publication engages in intelligence collection
16 and covert action. In this case the company is aware of the

17 CIA relationship while the publication is not. Bona fide
18 journalists who regularly provide the CIA with intelligence,

19 some are paid regularly while others are not. In one case
20 the journalist is apparently not aware that the U.S. embassy
21 official to whom he is providing information is actually a
22 CIA officer.

23 Now, what the recommendation here on 64, or the bracketed
24 recommendations and I'm sorry I created this situation
25 by giving various options by statute the CIA should be
TOD
REPORT
NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 17

TOP SECRET
1 prohibited from using American media organizations for
15
2 cover. That is the extent of it.
3 What is the trouble, Joe?

4 Mr. diGenova. That seems to be somewhat that seems
5 to be a back-off from what the Agency prohibits as well. I mean

6 do you want to make a recommendation saying that the Agency's
7 prohibition against using Americans who are accredited
8 Mr. Bader. No.
!.
9 This is the additive. The recommendation here is to
10 take the Agency's prohibitions which go to the question of,
11 American and foreign journalists, accredited to American
12 media organizations, and extend it to what is not covered under

13 those prohibitions, which is the use of these American media
14 organizations for cover purposes.

15 Mr. Maxwell. Is it clear that people who are in media
16 organizations are not accredited to those organizations?

17 Mr. Aaron. If they were, then they would be covered.

18 If they are accredited journalists, then they would not.

19 Mr. Maxwell. So the issue is whether individuals who
20 don't write --

21 Mr. Aaron. But may edit.

22 Mr. Maxwell. But may edit.

23 Ms. Culbreath. Or may type it up.

24 Mr. Aaron. Or may type it up.

25. Mr. Kirbow. Well, is this the same point that we're
NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 18

TOP SECRET
16
1 talking about less than 25 people, where you are going to make
2 a statutory prohibition against use of all people in that
3 category because on page 61 it says, "of the 65 Americans
4 employed by the CIA in the media field, only a little over

5 one third are journalists; another third are CIA agents operat-
6 ing under media cover, and the remaining individuals are either
7 employed as CIA media proprietaries abroad or are propaganda
8 writers and consultants."
9 So we are really talking about making a major prohibition
10 against a segment of our society where at the present time there
11 is less than 25 people who have any direct contact with the the

12 reading mind, apparently.
13 Senator Hart of Colordado. I think, Charlie, it's called
14 a principle. If it was only one person, you've still got the
15 problem. I don't think it is the quantity.

16 Ms. Davis. Bill, in your examples on 61, the first one
17 :
at the bottom, would that now be covered under your prohibition?

18 CIA officer engages in intelligence collection under cover as a

19 roving international news correspondent?
20 Mr. Bader. I can't remember from the text here whether
21 the man is accredited or not.
22 If he is accredited, it would be covered.

23 Ms. Davis. If not, he is not additionally covered by your
24 prohibition.

25 Senator Huddleston. This does not extend to the example
TAD SEADET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 19

TOP SECRET
17
1 that you gave, Charlie.
2 Mr. Kirbow. No, sir, it doesn't here.
3 Mr. Bader. Only if he is affiliated with that group.
4 Mr. Kirbow. His affiliation covers anybody who is an

5 American citizen is forever and hereafter would be prohibited, if

6 : it goes into the statute, from dealing.
7 Mr. diGenova. That's only one of the possibilities.
:
8 Mr. Kirbow. That's one of those recommendations based
9 on investigation.
10 Mr. Bader. I wasn't recommending that. I was saying that

11 was one of the possibilities of the whole list.
12 Senator Huddleston. But the recommendation at the top

13 of 64 doesn't cover an American citizen who is using the
14 foreign media as cover.
15 Mr. Bader. This would not cover an American citizen who

16 is, let's say, is working for Stompe, or Le Monde, and who is

17 not accredited, and at the same time is not accredited to
18 an American media organization.
19 It does not cover an American citizen who is a stringer to
20 a Latin American newspaper unless he is accredited to an American
21 media organization.
:
22 Mr. Kirbow. Let me try one more time, then, to state the

23 position of not Senator Tower in this case, but another Senator,
24 as I indicated, spoke to me on this very subject,and indicate
25 to you that we not do to harm or to prevent the use by the
NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 20

TOP SECRET
18
1 agency of certain people unless in some way that use affects
2 the rights and/or in some vague way affects the mental processes
3 to the detriment of the American citizenry, that we don't
4 concern ourselves with passing laws to protect the person who
5 reads something that these people do. If you do this, you open
6 that can of worms which gets you into a prohibition against any
7 work in the press or elsewhere in a propaganda fashion.

8 Now, the Committee may decide that propaganda is in fact

9 something that we should prohibit by law, but doing this
10 piecemeal like this, it does just exactly that. I see nothing
11 in our record that indicates that the use of certain of these these
12 people overseas or for cover in any way there is not

13 any evidence that it has adversely affected the rights of the
14 citizens of the United States. There is a potential for
15 abuse in practically anything secret and covert.

16 Senator Huddleston. I don't believe the recommendation

17 at the top of page 64 violates what you have just said.
18 Mr. Maxwell. I would not think that
19 Mr. Kirbow.. Well, it says, Mr. Chairman, that by statute,
20 by statute, which means by law, the CIA should be prohibited
21 from using American media organizations for cover. We apparently

22 have 65 people, a portion of which are being used for cover,

23 and apparently they consider them to be an essential asset, or

24 they wouldn't be using them.
25 Is that correct, Mr. Bader?
TAP RPARPT
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 21.

TOP SECRET
19
1 Mr. Bader. The CIA?
2 Mr. Kirbow. Yes.
3 Mr. Bader. I would assume that they would have extended
4 their prohibition to this, or on the other hand one could argue

5 I don't know what their motives were. It could have been they
6 felt that this, the first step they took was the one that was
7 dealing with what the public was demanding.

8 Mr. Kirbow. Well, I really don't see anything in our
9 record or any evidence that they have given us or anything
10 other than a staff position on this which we are trying to
11 sell the Committee that this is a harmful procedure.

12 Senator Huddleston. What this does is extends beyond
13 the practice of journalists to any other person, be it an
14 executive or clerk or typist or whatever, on the assumption
15 that you can't be a little bit pregnant. If the agency is
16 going to be subverted anywhere, not the agency, if the insti-
17 tution of the press is, that it is going to be subverted.

18 Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, the Agency has accepted the
19 basic principle, because it has removed from its list of

20 operational assets a rather larger number than this would
21 call for.
22 Mr. Kirbow. But if I hear correctly what you are saying

23 then, we are out to protect the American media from being made
24 pregnant by the CIA and not worrying at all about the reading

25 public or the other, but just the media.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 22

TOP SECRET
20
1 Senator Huddleston. The assumption is if the media of
i
2 the press is subverted, that it will affect the citizens, or
3 they will suffer.

4 Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Chairman, in the interest
5 of expedition, I move the passage of these three recommendations.
6 Senator Huddleston. All right. Let's see what the three
7. are.
8 Mr. Aaron. Well, let me summarize the first one. I think

9 we have agreed the first is that the prohibition on distribu-

10 tion of CIA funded, supported, subsidized and so forth, that
11 that be prohibited within the United States.
12 Mr. Inderfurth. Printed.

13 Mr. Kirbow. Excuse me.. Not printed.

14 Mr. Aaron. The word "printed" dropped out for the following
15 reason. One, it makes it easier to prohibit the distribution
16 if you don't identify where the printing is taking place, and
17 secondly, while there is no printing going on here, the

18 question really goes to distribution. I think that was the
19 concurrence of the Committee.
20 The second point is that the prohibitions of that the
21 Agency now has upon itself, be made law.

22 Mr. diGenova. On the use of media personnel and
23 institutions?
24 Mr. Aaron. On the use of media personnel and institutions,
25 and the third point is that it be extended to say by statute
TAR RPAR
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 23

TOP SECRET
21
1 the CIA should be prohibited from using American media organiza
2 tions for cover.

3 Senator Huddleston. Well, the style of this ought to

4 be changed, it seems to me, because one of the recommendations,
5 instead of listed under recommendations, is the last paragraph
6 on 63, is that correct?
7 Mr. Aaron. Yes, that would be picked up as a recommenda-
