157-10011-10085
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Date: 10/06/93
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10085
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : UNKNOWN
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :
MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS

DATE: 07/09/70
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS:
MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS ( [R]
STETSON, SHIRLEY; WILSON, JOHN [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
SSCI Box 292, Folder 12

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32203853 Page 1

Record Number 157-10011-10085

SSCI Box #292, Folder 12 9 July 1970 292-171
SUBJECT: Meeting with DCS Headquartoss' Officers Q

Shirley STETSON, for at least ten years the hackbone of DCS/OSS and recently
reassigned to DCS/Washington, and John WILSON, recently designated as Jim DURBIN's
replacement in Raleigh-Durham-Chanel Hill Office which covers North and South Carolina
CIA officer and the writer from
visited CI/SO on 9 July 1970 and were briefed by
CIA officer
1100 to 1200 hours. This was follwed by lunch( / (could not accompany) and
discussions until 1315 hours.

2. The following highlights are made a matter of recopd:

a. Reports from "Chico" concerning B'Nai Brith in NYC are still being received
a
the CIA officer
by DCS but, as is the custom, they are being sent to/CIA officerin CI/SPG initially,
Xxix rather than to CI/SO. It is believed that / has been absent for about two
months and this may account for the fact that CI/SO has not been receiving the
material.

b. Upon the departure of STETSON for Washington and of a CIA officer for LA,
Peter HOUCK will assume responsibility for Case 52722. HOUCK has just completed his
CT program and before that spent a wear in DCS on the Soviet Block Desk where he
handled nuclear matters. He is well-regarded.

c. John WILSON is young, short, red-haired, aggressive, slow-speaking, former
CT who has spent two years in DCS Head quarters. He previously served as a missionary
for the Mormon Church in Austria with his wife. He stems from Ogden, Utah and the w
opinès that he could be slated for the job of Gen. Sterling RYSOR & replacement in Sai
Lake City in five to ten years when RYSOR retires. WILSON is sensitive, flushes easily
has a friendly somewhat-shy manner yet expresses his opinions easily. He does not c
as a hall of fire or a personality guy but seems serious and level-headed. As has'..
coted with racy Mermans, he seems to save his greatest enthusiasm for discussio
the Hormon Church. How true it is that there is no such thing as a half-committed

result of his year or two of missionary duty in Austria with 300
:
:
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED MAR 94
NW 50955 DocId: 32203853 P
