157-10002-10150
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10150

RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
ΤΟ :

TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF HOWARD J. OSBORN

DATE: 08/28/75
PAGES: 96

SUBJECTS:
CIA
GIANCANA, SAM
MAHEU, ROBERT
CASTRO
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
HARVEY, WILLIAM
PAPICH, SAM
GAMBINO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
Box 255
Folder 8

Date: 10/05/93..
Page:1

NW 50955 DocId:32281990 Page 1

[R]  ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET 3

TESTIMONY OF HOWARD J. OSBORN, ACCOMPANIED
BY JOHN W. DEBELIUS, COUNSEL

Mr. Osborn. My name is Howard J. Osborn, 1224 Mottron
Drive, McLean, Virginia.

Mr. Wallach. And Counsel, would you just state your name.

Mr. Debelius. The name is John W. Debelius, 570 North
Frederick Avenue, Gaithersburg, Maryland.

Mr. Wallac h. Once again, Mr. Osborn, as the Senator told
you, and as you have been told before, you do have the full
spectrum of rights available to you here that you have under
the Constitution, and in particular you do have the right to
remain silent if you choose to as to any particular question.

And in addition, you have the right to request that a Senator
be present if you desire that one be here.

Mr. Osborn. Yes.

Mr. Wallach. Very briefly, before Mr. Rhea begins his
questions, I would like to ask if Mr. Debelius is here as your
personal counsel today?

Mr. Osborn. That is right.

Mr. Osborn. I take it, then that the CIA in no way secured
Mr. Debelius' representation for you?

Mr. Osborn. I wish they were paying him, but they are not.

I am.

Mr. Wallach. I will ask Mr. Rhea to begin his segment of
the examination.

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 2
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 19

Mr. Osborn. Not to the best of my recollection.

Mr. Rhea. That is all I have. Thank you very much.

(Off the record discussion.)

Mr. Wallach. Mr. Osborn, if you would, just very briefly,
on the subject matter that I am going to be directing your
attention to, the mail programs, the various mail programs that
you may have had knowledge of while you were with the CIA, I
would like to have you very briefly trace your career for us
in briefest terms with the Agency.

Mr. Osborn. All right.

I jointed the Agency on 10 October 1974.

I worked in what was then known as the Office of Collection
and Dissemination, which concerned itself largely with the
collection of any information that had any foreign intelligence
import from other Government departments and agencies such as
the Department of Commerce, the Department of Interior, the
Department of the Treasury, and so forth. It was essentially
a liaison job.

I served there about a year and a half, and I then jointed
the Contact Division of the Office of Operations, which was
concerned with the selection of foreign intelligence information
from American businessmen and private organizations who had
business abroad.

I served there until roughly 1950, when I jointed the
Office of Special Operations, and was assigned to create a hon

(1)(B)
15 NOV 93

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 3
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 20

official: cover division. Essentially the job
1 was to solicit the cooperation of private industry
2 sion was to solicit the cooperation of private organizations in providing names
3 agents abroad. provide official cover for CIA

This division, as I recall, was the Plans Staff of the
5 Foreign Intelligence Division of the Clandestine Services which
6 is known as the Deputy Director of Plans, DDP.
7 I was promoted from that position to be Chief of the Plans
8 Staff. I served there until 1955, roughly 1955, when I became
9 Assistant to the Inspector General of the Agency.

I served there until 19 correction. I think I joined
11 the Inspector General's staff in 1954, and I left there in late

WARD & PAUL
12 1955 to go abroad in the position of Deputy Chief of Station
13 for combined Services in a German station in Frankfurt

(1)CA 14 Germany.
15 NOV 23 15

After three years in that position I served brifely for
six months as Deputy Chief of Base in Berlin

17 And then 11 months as Chief of Base in Munich, Germany.

I left there in September 1960 to take the position of
19 Deputy Chief of the Soviet Russian Division in the Clandestine
20 Services of the Agency in Washington. I served in that
position for about a year and a half, and then became Chief of
22 the Soviet Russian Division. And I held that position until
23 Septemb er of 1963, when I accepted the position of Deputy
24 Director of the Office of Security of the Agency.
(1)(B)

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 4
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 22

Mr. Osborn. To the best of my recollection, I believe they
were.
2 Mr. Wallach. Going back just a step, I take it that you
3 had no knowledge of any mail opening projects while you were
4 with the Inspector General's Office in 1954?
5 Mr. Osborn. To the best of my recollection, I don't
believe I was briefed on what was then HT LINGUAL and which
6 subsequently became SR POINTER

7 Mr. Wallach. I think those just may have been different
9 names for the same operation, different divisions.
10 Mr. Osborn. I think they were, yes, different code names.
11 They changed them frequently.
12 Mr. Wallach. While you were in Berlin -- you said you
were Station Chief Deputy Chief of Base.
13 Mr. Osborn.
15 Mr. Wallach. Did you have knowledge of the military's
16 mail operation over there, mail intercept operation?
17 Mr. Osborn. I may have had, but I can't recall it spe-
cifically.

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
(1) (B)
15 NOV 93

19 Mr. Wallach. Did you subsequently gain knowledge of that
20 mail intercept operation?
21 Mr. Osborn. I have heard of it somewhere.
22 Mr. Wallach. What is the nature of the operation that you
23 have heard of?
24 Mr. Osborn. That the military was intercepting mail. I
25

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 5
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 23

don't know the details.
1 Mr. Wallach. Have you heard of any arrangements whereby
2 the German authorities actually provide the mail?
3 Mr. Osborn. I can't recall that, honestly. I may have,
4 but I can't recall it specifically.
5 Mr. Wallach. In other words, would it be fair to say that
6 you are not familiar with that operation?
7 Mr. Osborn. I am not familiar at all with it.
8 Mr. Wallach. As I stated before, we have some documents
9 here, and there are a couple that I think are relevant. And I
10 would like you to review them later, but I want to get your

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
11 state of recollection now. I realize that it is based on
12 memory of events years ago, and things you read in the paper.
13 And in no way am I questioning the truth of your memory.
14 Mr. Osborn. I understand.
15 Mr. Wallach. Could you just give us an overview
16 of your understanding as to how the we will call it the
New York intercept, SR POINTER of HT LINGUAL, whichever name
17 you want to use, developed in the fifties?

18 Mr. Osborn. I have no specific knowledge of this. It is
20 a little unusual, but even considering that this is one of the
21 things, of course, that we reported to Director Schlesinger,
(1)(B)

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
22 I don't believe we reported this in any detail as to how it
23 started, because I am not really sure that any of us knew.
24 I don't recall exactly how it did start. But it was alsways
25

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 6
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 30

which time I was briefed on this particular operation.
1 Mr. Wallach. Did you know whether or not the Postmaster
2 General, the then Postmaster General, I am not sure who it
3 was in 1964, July, whoever it was in that position, had
knowledge of the fact that mail was opened in New York City?

4 Mr. Osborn. To the best of my recollection, I never heard
6 that he was.
7 Mr. Wallach. Had you ever heard either way about the
8 Attorney General, be it Robert Kennedy or any of his
9 predecessors?
10 Mr. Osborn. Not to the best of my recollection.
11 Mr. Wallach. When you visited New York on this inspection

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
12 trip that you described being possibly with Mr. White, do you
13 recall whether or not Mr. Favorini accompanied you out to the
14 facility?
15 Mr. Osborn. I can't recall specifically, but I am sure
16 that he did.
17 Mr. Wallach. Did you actually go out to Idlewild, or
18 to Konnedy, if it was changed?
19 Mr. Osborn. They had changed it. It was then an adjunct
20 of the physical installation of the New York Field Office of
21 the Office of Security It was only changed to Idlewild or
22 Kennody during the last three or four years of my tenure as
23 Director of Security. Prior to that it was right in the
(1) (B)
15 NOV 23
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
24 office.
25

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 7
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 40

Mr. Dick. Were you told that it was illegal?
1
2 Mr. Osborn. No. I assumed it was. You don't open mail
3 in peacetime.
4 Mr. Wallach. Did the Office of Security also run the
5 project in Washington whereby diplomatic pouches were opened?
6 Mr. Osborn. Not to my knowledge.

7 Mr. Wallach. Do you have any knowledge of the project?
8 Mr. Osborn. We had some arrangement with the Department
(1)(B) 9 of Customs at Dulles Airport And it may have been diplomatic
15 NOV 93
10 pouches. I am not sure that it was, but we did have some
11 arrangements with Customs But I can't recall the details

WARD & PAUL
12 of it. But I feel sure that we did.
13 Mr. Wallach. At Dulles?
14 Mr. Osborn. The one I specifically remember was at Dulles.
15 And I am pretty sure it was diplomatic pouches. But I can't
16 recall the details, I really can't. But I have a recollection
17 of this. Ang again, we were doing it just as a mechanism
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
18 again. It was the Clendestine Services that had to be calling
19 the shot of that.
20 Mr. Wallach. I am just asking for the extent of your
21 knowledge.
22 Mr. Osborn. And if we did it at Dulles we must have done
23 it some other places.
24 Mr. Wallach. What cooperative arrangement with Customs
25 areyou aware of?

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 8
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 41

Mr. Osborn. We had totally cooperative arrangement with
1 the Bureau of Customs.
2 Mr. Wallach. With respect to mail?
3 Mr. Osborn. Anything.
4 Mr. Wallach. Could you go into that?
5 Mr. Osborn. I can't recall the details, but I can recall
6 that we used to bring in highly sinsitive people through
7 Customs without Customs services.
(1)(B)
15 NOV 93
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
8 Mr. Wallach. I am really just asking, not for techniques
9 or narcotics or training or things like that we are aware of,
10 but really with respect to Customs providing certain mail
11 Customs providing mail that the Postal Service could not
12 provide in certain situations.
13 Mr. Osborn. I have a recollection that they did cooperate
14 with us in this respect. And I am sorry that I can't be more
15 clear on the details.
16 Mr. Wallach. Was there a particular point of contact in
17 Customs?
18 Mr. Osborn. Yes.
19 Mr. Wallach. Who was that?
20 Mr. Osborn. The point of contact that we remember the
21 best was a fellow named Dave Ellis that I remember.
22 Mr. Wallach. And how late was Mr. Ellis there at Customs?
23 Mr. Osborn. He retired about two and a half years ago.
24 Mr. Dick. What was his position at Customs?
25
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 9
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 42

Mr. Osborn. He was a Deputy under Commissioner of Customs
1
2 He had a very high position in Customs David C. Ellis was
3 his name.
4 Mr. Wallach. I note your attorney is taking notes. May
5 I ask if those will be provided to the CIA?
6 Mr. Debelius. If they will be provided to the CIA it
7 wouldn't be by me, Mr. Wallach. Really, I am doing it here
8 to organize my own thoughts. And I would be happy to destroy
9 them in your presence.
10 Mr. Wallach. I have absolutely no problem. I was just
11 wondering if you were going under instructions.
12 Mr. Debelius. Could we go off the record just a moment?
13 Mr. Wallach. Surely.
14 (Off the record discussion.)
15 Mr. Wallach. Do you recall anybody else Customs that
16 the Agency had contact with on a regular basis?
17 Mr. Osborn. I can't recall any other, but I am sure there
(1)(B)
15 NOV 93
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
18 were others.
19 Mr. Wallach. Do you recall any generic types of operations
20 that Customs cooperated with?
21 Mr. Osborn. No. But to the best of my recollection, there
22 was very little that we would ask Customs to do that they
23 couldn't do for us. The same is true of immigration and
24 Naturalization and many other departments.
25 Mr. Dick. Are you familiar with a series of Customs
NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 10
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 43

operations that terminated in the mid-sixties that involved
1 interceptions off propaganda from other countries to the US?
2 Mr. Osborn. I seem to have heard of this, but I can't
3 recall it specifically. It sounds familiar to me.
4 Mr. Dick. Do you recall whether in any of those customs
5 programs the CIA might have received mail from Customs, access
6 to the mail?
7 Mr. Osborn. Not specifically. And I can clarify one
8 thing for you now. On this Dulles thing, I am sorry. It was
(1)(B)
9 not diplomatic pouches It was mail to and from the Soviet
15 NOV 93 10 Union that we used to take and bring back and reproduce and
11 put back, and specifically at Dulles. And I seem to recall also
12 in the same context of my discussion with you if you ask

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
13 me specifically if I knew, I would say no, but I seem to
14 recall that they did cooperate with us in the matter of
15 diplomatic pouches... I can't remember a specific instance,
16 but I recall this.
17 Mr. Dick. Is that the extent of your recollection?
18 Mr. Osborn. Yes, really. But this propaganda thing
19 rings a loud bell in my mind.
20 Mr. Wallach. Aside from the mail opening projects which
21 have publically come to light in recent months and I will
22 go through them very briefly now there were the San
23 Francisco project, which was repeated two or three times, the
24 project in New Orleans which you have mentioned before in the
25

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 11
TOP SECRET

dn14
TOP SECRET 59

Communist China from San Francisco.
1
2
3
I said, does Mr. Karamessines approve this?
They said,yes.
4 I said, does Mr. Helms approve it and they
5 said, we can assume that Mr. Karamessines has got Mr. Helms'
6 approval.
7 And I said, I can't assume it. I will have to get it
8 from him directly.
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
9 And I did. I sent one of my fellows, a senior fellow
10 named Jack Turton. I made arrangements through Mr. Cottery
11 I believe, to send him out to San Francisco to talk to
12 the Chief Postal Inspector in San Francisco, and I believe

WARD & PAUL
13 they set it up so that representatives of the Far East
14 Division and the Technical Services Division, not the security
15 people I can't recall, but I believe that they were to pose
16 as Postal Inspectors, with access of certain categories of
(1)(A)
15 NOV 23 17 mail from Communist China to this country, for the purpose of
18 photographing exteriors, examining it for possible eviddnce
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 of censorship, but I did not know that they were going to open
20 it, I had no idea they opened the mail. And I found out
21 socially and personally from one of the people involved about
22 a year ago that they opened the mail.
23 Mr. Wallach. Who was that from?
24 Mr. Osborn. A friend ofmine whowas involved,
25 who is retired from the Agency, a fellow by the name of Rood
NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 12 TOP SECRET

dn15
TOP SECRET 60

Keaner &
1 Mr. Wallach. Was Mr. Kenner actually involved in the
2 operation?
3 Mr. Osborn. Yes, he was a part of it.
4 Mr. Wallach. Do you know Mr. Mikashawa?
5 Mr. Osborn. I am sure there was one, but I never met
6 anybody named Mikashawa.

7 Mr. Wallach. Are you saying, Mr. Osborn, that the
8 operation you received approval from Mr. Helms for was not
9 a mail opening operation?
10 Mr. Osborn. That is right. It was a mail cover
11 operation.
(1)(A)
15 NOV 23

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
12 Mr. Wallach. Would it be fair to say, then, that in
13 gaining that approval from you you were actually misled?
14 Mr. Osborn. Yes, indeed I wasn't misled, but per-
15 haps it seemed when I got out there and found out how easy
16 it was to get it but I don't know, I wasn't told that
17 they were to open mail. That isn't the circumstances
18 under which I briefed Mr. Helms.
19 Mr. Wallach. Did you discuss this project with Mr.
20 Cotter?
21 Mr. Osborn. Yes, I discussed it with him, I think, in
22 arranging the original meeting with Mr. Turton. I don't know
23 whether Mr. Turton went over and talked to Mr. Cotter directly,
24 or whether Mr. Cotter just made the entre with the San Francisco
25

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 13

dn18
TOP SECRET 63

In other words, I am sure they didn't go to Mr. Cotter
1 every time they wanted something on a day-to-day relationship.
2 Mr. Wallach. I have just given Mr. Osborn a copy of
3 a memorandum dated December 24, 1974, which is in fact after
4 the time he left on sick leave, and there is no reason to
5 believe that he was seen it. I would just like him to re-
6 view it and possibly refresh his recollection.
7 Off the record.
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
8 (Discussion off the record.)
9 Mr. WAllach. Back on the record.
10 I think I misspoke when I gave Mr. Osborn a memo. It
11 is a three-page undated memo captioned "Project West Pointer."
12 I believe it was recently prepared.
13 But in any event I would like to call your attention
14 to the last paragraph on the third page which states:
15 "The main difference between SR POINTER and West Pointer
16 is that the file shows specific reference to a statement by
17 the Postal authorities that mail not to go out of Post Office
18 control. While mail was opened and photographed by Agency
19 personnel in New York City under SR POINTER, and not specific
20 post office approval was given, neither is there written order
21 not to do so. In West Pointer the opening of mail was
22 contrary to specific orders that mail was not to out of post
23 office control."
24 Mr. Osborn. There you are.
25

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 14

dn19
TOP SECRET 64

Mr. Wallach. Is that also your understanding, really?
1
2
3
Mr. Osborn. Yes, very definitely.. This fellow who is
a close friend of mine and I don't want to necessarily put
4 him on the spot, but he is retired and is in Florida
5 came back and spent time with me at my home. And at one
6 juncture, discussing such things as now, the Senate and the
7 House, and what is going to happen, he said, well, you know,
8 you remember that West Coast operation.

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
(1)(A)
15 NOV 13

9 And I said, yes.
10 And he said, you didn't know we opened the mail,
11 did you?
12 And I said, no, I didn't know you opened the mail.
13 That was the first time I ever heard they opened it.
14 Mr. Dick. Are you referring to Mr. Kenner?
15 Mr. Osborn. Yes.
16 Mr. Dick. What division was Mr. Kenner in?
17 Mr. Osborn. He was with ID at that time.
18 Mr. Wallach. I take it by your actions this might
19 be speculation, and if you don't want to answer, feel free
20 not to.
21 Mr. Osborn. If I do, I will establish that it is
22 speculation.
23 Mr. Wallach. You would not have approved the West
24 Coast operation if you knew it involved mail opening?
25 Mr. Osborn. I would not have approved it the
NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 15
TOP SECRET

dn20
TOP SECRET 65

Director might have approved it, but it wasn't the way
1 I briefed it, and it wasn't my understanding with Mr. Cotter.
2 Mr. Wallach. In other words, you did give Mr. Cotter
3 assurance that this was only a mail cover type of operation?
4 Mr. Osborn. That was the understanding I had with Mr.
5 Cotter, to the best of my recollection.
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
6 Mr. Wallach. Have you subsequently discussed the
7 West Coast operation with Mr. Cotter?
8 Mr. Osborn. Yes, I have. Since I am under oath,
9 I had lunch with Bill Cotter and Marv Gentile on Tuesday of
10 this week, and we naturally discussed this stuff. We went
11 over the fact that he recalled me, and that both of us were
12 instrumental in terminating the New York project. And I have
13 forgotten the exact context, but the San Francisco thing
(1)(A)
15 NOV 93
14 came up. And I told him, I didn't even know the mail was
15 being opened until I talked to Rod Kenner.
16 He said, you didn't?
17 And I said, no.
18 He said, well, it was. He said, I just found out about
19 it. I presume through testimony or something.
20 But that was the essence of my discussion.
21 Mr. Wallach. Did Mr. Cotter talk to you about any
22 FBI mail opening projects?
23 Mr. Osborn. No, he did not. We were in a public res-
24 taurant. We doubletalked.
25

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 16
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 84

you have any knowledge of it?
1 Mr. Osborn. The first time I ever saw the Huston Plan
2 was in the newspapers.
3 Mr. Wallach. Didn't Mr. Helms know that mail was being
4 opened in New York in 1971?
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
5 Mr. Osborn. Of course he did.
6 Mr. Wallach. Did you know why Mr. Helms would have asked
7 the President for authority to open mail in 1971, then?
8 Mr. Osborn. I have no idea.
9 Mr. Wallach. Calling your attention to a memorandum dated
10 February 16, 1973, captioned "Visit to Headquarters re SR POINTER," I will ask you to quickly read that over.
11 Mr. Osborn. I must have been Iden 18.
12 Mr. Wallach. The first question would be, do you recall
13 a meeting in your office at which you notified Mr. Issaeff
14 that the project would be terminated?
15 Mr. Osborn. I don't think I dealt with Issaeff. I think
16 I would have dealt with one of my people. But it could have
17 been Issaeff. I don't know. I remember suspending it.
18 Mr. Wallach. And do you remember telling Mr. Issaeff in
19 words or substance that he should not tell anyone on the CI
20 Staff that you wanted to tell the Director of the CIA Staff
21 yourself?
22 Mr. Osborn. I very probably would have. I had very close
23 relationships with Jim Angleton professionally.
24

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 17
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET 90

memorandum from Chief, CI."
1
2 Mr. Wallach. Calling your attention to the first page,
3 you stated this is Mr. Angleton's handwriting?
4 Mr. Osborn. Yes.
5 Mr. Wallach. I realize that most of it is illegible but
6 I ask if you can read the line that begins with Osborn.

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
410 First Sweet, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
7 Mr. Osborn. "Osborn said he was under instructions from
8 Colby to the effect that no pressure should be put on Cotter."
9 Mr. Wallach. Do you recall discussing that with Mr.
10 Colby or Mr. Angleton?
11 Mr. Osborn. No. But I do remember talking to Bill Colby
12 about the position that Cotter was in, and he was always
13 extremely sympathetic. And I don't know what pressure anybody
14 could put on Cotter.
15 Mr. Wallach. I believe you briefly touched on this before.
16 How was the operation actually terminated?
17 Mr. Osborn. I called in Stan Ense, I believe, who was
18 then Deputy Director of Security for Investigations and
19 Operational Support, and I said SR POINTER is terminated as
20 of now. I think it was in the early afternoon. And that was
21 the end of it.
22 Mr. Wallach. In other words, it was then Mr. Colby under
23 Schlesinger who terminated it?
24 Mr. Osborn. Yes.
25 Mr. Wallach. And I take it

NW 50955 DocId: 32281990 Page 18
TOP SECRET
