157-10008-10246	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
				7/1197
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
					7/2018	Date:10/07/93
							Page: 1
				IDENTIFICATION FORM

				AGENCY INFORMATION

	AGENCY: SSCIA				CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
	RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10246			DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
							RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
	RECORDS SERIES :				IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED
								6/12/98

	AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R560A

					DOCUMENT INFORMATION

	ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
	FROM :
	TO :

	TITLE :
	INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

	DATE: 07/25/75
	PAGES: 3

	SUBJECTS:
	INTERVIEW WITH DAVID, PAUL (ALIAS)
	SUBJ: ASSASSINATION INQUIRY

	DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
	CLASSIFICATION : T
	RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
	CURRENT STATUS: P
	DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/93

	OPENING CRITERIA :

	COMMENTS:
	BOX 438-12
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32203754 Page 1

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SU RY

INTERVIEW WITH:	Paul David (alias)	:	SSCI

REGARDING:	Assassination Inquiry				438-12
							10246

DATE-TIME-LOCATION:	July 25, 1975; 608 Carroll Arms

PRESENT:	Messrs. WALLACH and DiGenova

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

MATERIAL SUBMITTED BY INTERVIEWEE(S):

EXECUTIVE SESSION:		YES		[ ] NO

NW 50955 DocId:32203754 Page 2

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY						Page _1_ of _2_
TOP SECRET

FILE:

This morning, Joe and I met with Paul David
("P.D.") at the Carroll Arms for approximately
two hours. George Clarke from the CIA's General
Counsel's staff was present for the last fifteen
minutes of the interview.

Background:

1948-51 - Assistant to the Chief of Station -
Romania
1951-54 - Chief Rumanian Desk
1954-58 - Chief of Operations Against Communist
16 - Areas (Eastern Bloc) - (Operations from
Restok Krsen- stationed in Greece
1958-61 - Centre Chief Station 15-16
1961-62 - Special Assistant to Helms
1962-63 - National War College (June 1962 -
July 1963)
1963-64 - Helms' Special Assistant
1965-66 - Chief Stationriquland/Hague 15-6
1966-69 - Chief of Station mmiopila 2-21
1969-73 - Chief of Operational Services
- Chief of Staff in DDP. (Director
Clandestine Services)
1973 - Chief Career Management Personnel
1973-74 - Chief Plans & Programs for Directorate

Interview Summary:

Bissell "out of the blue" asked P.D. to read
and comment upon Zoogby's Cuban operations paper.
P.D. told Bissell that the paper/proposals "stunk"
(. "much like another Bay of Pigs"). Appar-
ently, Helms also read and liked P.D.'s comments.
After Bissell "left", Helms requested that P.D.
come on board as his staff assistant.

P.D. stressed that he was not in the opera-
tional line of command - "I provided an interface
for intelligence information." A typical day in
P.D.'s life:

- Screening cable traffic (7 - 9 a.m.).
- Primarily cables relating to positive in-
telligence, to prepare Helms for his daily
9 a.m. hour-long meeting with DCI McCone.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
Je-14-Jul 94-

(1)CA
(1)CB
(()(c)

055 DocId: 32203754 Page 3

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY						Page _2_ of _2_

TOP SECRET

FILE:

- Prepared a daily briefing for the White
House on Cuban intelligence.

- Preparing review of books such as "The
Invisible Government" and damage reports
(i.e., reports setting forth what sensitive
information exposed by book).

P.D. stressed that he was "out of touch with the
day-to-day operations of Task Force W". However,
he believes that Harvey kept Helms fully briefed.

Harvey, in P.D.'s own words, was "not an
ordinary man", . "egocentric", "bombastic",
"one of the strongest proponents of compartmentali-
zation and need to know". In addition, Harvey had
a law degree and a successful FBI stint prior to
joining the Agency.

Harvey had a thyroid problem. As one of the
"CIA's most interesting characters", Harvey was
often talked about, P.D. has difficulty separating
personal experience from rumors. Describing
Harvey as a "four martini man at lunch"
which, coupled with Harvey's thyroid medicine,
caused Harvey to be sleepy, etc., after lunch. In
fact, P.D. told us that this was the "last straw"
in McCone's eyes; i.e., apparently when McCone
called Harvey in to "discuss" the Kennedys' com-
plaints about Harvey's utterings, it was immediately
after lunch and Harvey either fell asleep or failed
to pay attention. ("McCone did not have an audience."
P.D. added that there was general "bad chemistry"
between McCone and Harvey.

P.D. noted Harvey's intense loyalty to "his people"
(including Helms and Carkey However, P.D.
is sure that even with these people, Harvey was
likely to have been extremely close-mouthed.

055 DocId:32203754 Page 4
