176-10030-10168  2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992.
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/5/2016
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10030-10168 [Dup 176-10030-10085]
RECORD SERIES: ORAL HISTORY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: ORAL HISTORY INTERVIEW WITH EDWARD G. LANSDALE

DATE: 07/11/1970
PAGES: 124-

SUBJECTS: VIETNAM, CUBA-BAY OF PIGS

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Not Marked
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: sanitized version

34

SANITIZED MK.99.41 12/00.

Oral History Interview
with
EDWARD E.
G. Lansdale

July 11, 1970
Alexandria, Virginia
By Dennis J. O'Brien
For the John F. Kennedy Library

O'BRIEN: I think a logical place to begin in anything
like this is just simply with the question,
when did you first meet President Kennedy,
or Senator Kennedy, if you met him before
he was President?

LANSDALE: I don't recall meeting him before he was
President. The first meeting I believe,
was/ I believe,
the first Saturday following the inauguration,
whatever date that was. I was called into a
meeting in the White House by [Robert S.]
McNamara. It was a meeting, on, actually, on
a report that I had written for [Dwight D.]
Eisenhower. It was sort of a, I'm not sure

-2-

that it was, NSC [National Security Council]
meeting, but it was comparable to that with
the personnel that were attending. There were
several Secretaries: Defense, State, and his
National Security people were there.

O'Brien: Could you discuss that with McNamara and [Roswell L.]
Gilpatric, members of the incoming administra-
tion, before they actually assumed office?

LANSDALE: Just before, that is, a day or so before. I'd
been in Vietnam for a brief visit and got back
just before the inaugural, maybe two or three
days, and at that time both McNamara and
Gilpatric were in Defense getting briefed for
their new jobs. I met them at that time.
The outgoing Deputy Secretary of Defense asked
me to start working with Gilpatric, and so I
wanted
got Gilpatric rather than McNamara.
[James H]
O'BRIEN: This is Douglas.

LANSDALE: Douglas, Jim Douglas (James H Douglas)

O'BRIEN: How is Douglas to work with, while you're with
him? Is he a pretty sympathetic person?

LANSDALE: Yes, very much so, very much so. He was the
one, actually, who wrote the orders and back-

-3-

stopped my visit to Vietnam, and back-
stopped it principally so that I could take
a look at some of the political factors as
well as economic, military, and psychological
and everything else. This, frankly, took a
considerable

standing on his part
that because my views weren't always
popular in other parts of the government.
I gathered that there was some opposition to
my going out, and he insisted on it..

O'BRIEN: I'd like to come back to that. I wonder if
we could go on to talk about one of the major
problems, which is Cuba. When is the first
time that you hear about the Bay of Pigs
invasion, not the Bay of Pigs, but the plans?

LANSDALE: Sometime in the fall of sixty. I think that
I heard of it about the first time that it
inner g
was brought up to the inter-policy group of
the Eisenhower administration. I was the
Deputy Assistant to the Secretary of Defense,
at the time, for Special Operations and used
to accompany the Deputy Secretary, who was a
member of the inter-policy group, to most of

:

-4-

the meetings that they had. When Allen Dulles
(Allen-W.-Dulles) first raised the notion to
this inner
the Senate group. I was present at the meeting
as an Assistant.

O'BRIEN: What is the thinking about it at that time?
What kind of operation is -- it
:basically a guerilla operation at this point?

LANSDALE: Initially, it was. Initially, it was very differ-
from
ent than the way it turned out. It was based
(Field)
on a premise that many people in Cuba were very
unhappy with the Castro administration and the
way it was turning away from the initial
revolutionary objectives and the capture of the
revolutionary movement by the Communist Party,
which surprised many of the supporters of
Castro as a guerilla and as a revolutionary
Context
action. So the thought was to back a number ?
the
of Cubans who either had been supporters of
A
Castro or were very unhappy, were still resident
in Cuba, and to cause some overturn at the time.
The change of plan towards the Bay of Pigs
gradually
thing evolved fairly fragilely and apparently
in
there was a planning group and CIA (Central

-5-

Intelligence Agency) who were working on this
initial plan who started thinking in military
invasion terms. I suspect that they were
doing that because some of the Cuban military
and military types, that is, very militant,
as were coming out of
K...
Cuba as refugees, and they suddenly saw a

windfall of man power and started thinking in
other terms of use of them. But this change
was, the changed plan towards the Bay of Pigs
the way it was going.
thing, was well under way in the inner circle
and
thinking of CIA by December of '60, very defi-
nitely so.

O'BRIEN: Who were some of the inner circle people at
do you recall?
this point,
(Pierre B.) Salinger, of course
I imagine [Richard M.] Bissell was!...
LANSDALE: OBRIEN:
LANSDALE: Let's see . . . Oh golly. . . Dick Bissell
(Richard M. Bissell) was the overall chief of
the group.

O'BRIEN: Tracy Barnes, was he in it at that time?
but
LANSDALE: Tracy was an assistant to him, How far
.

actually
detailed
or anything.. .
Tracy went in the actual planning, I have my
doubts that he was . . .
:

O'BRIEN: How about Broe, William Broe?
(William-V.-BROE)

-6-

LANSDALE: He was one of a planning group who were
planning the operation, but he wasn't a chief,
and I can't recall the guy's name offhand.

O'BRIEN: Oh well, maybe when you get the transcript back,
LANSDALE: Maybe some of OBRIEN:
you can. How about from some of the other
places
. . . . (........ C.) Mann, I
days?
guess.
:

LANSDALE: Yes, but initially it was all CIA. They
early on,
borrowed some military personnel to help with
A
the planning earlier but they were people
who had been attached to CIA for temporary
duty on other matters, and they hadn't come
in initially for this specific planning. In
December, when the planning had obviously
started coming in with a beach landing and so
on, the way it turned out, I urged at that
point to get military planning in on the
97
thing. I was worrying about it. As a matter
of fact, Allen Dulles brought his planners
to a policy meeting, a policy group meeting,
=
and they were explaining the concept and my
questioning was such that Allen Dulles pleaded
with me not to spoil the plan at an early

-7-

stage. I remember General (Lyman L.)
Lemnitzer was sitting in the meeting
He was chairman of the JCS (Joint Chiefs of
the
Staff) at the time, and he backed up my urging
A
them to get some military planning in on that.
After th
po

. . .ent among our
ie of that, and then the JCS set up
a special section to plan along with the
(Central-Intelligence) Agency on that. And who
the hell headed that?

O'BRIEN: This is yet in the Eisenhower administration.

LANSDALE: This is all back in 1960. This was still in
an
the early planning stages This was before
A
training or anything like that was put forward.
When the JCS got into the act, I asked to be
disassociated with the project. I was rather
looked
doings
critical of the concept, and it was was just too
clumsy and overtl and a poor-planned feeling.
Λ
don't they
Alot of people have knowledge of this, by the
end of the Eisenhower administration? throughout government

LANSDALE: I don't know how widespread it was. There
were key executives that were knowledgeable,
there was a small group in the JCS that was
:

-8-

knowledgeable, and there was a planning group
at CIA, but I don't think it went beyond that.
I don't know how far it was known, but I
thought it was rather closely held.

O'BRIEN: You don't know whether the presidential candi-
dates . . . at all, do you?

LANSDALE: Yes ...ey were. There was a very definite
--

no, wait a minute the candidates, no, I don't
=
think they were. As a matter of fact, it was
in thic
still in a rather nebulous stage of shifting
over in Carry November, I think somebody
told me, if I recall correctly, that the concept
was in the form of a memo in CIA about August,
so this would be well after the candidates
had been nominated and so on. I imagine that
just
to
side
it was held by two or three people in the CIA
A
at the time. At least, the rest of us certainly
didn't know it. I forget exactly when I first
heard it, but it would be possibly October,
but it might have even been November, by the
time I heard about it. As I say, I heard
about it when it was surfaced with the inner
circle of our administration executives.

-9-

O'BRIEN: Well, I suppose you had some conversations
with Dulles and with Bissell and some of
these people about it.

LANSDALE: Yes.

O'BRIEN: What's their feeling? You already discussed
D. . . . . . . . . . . . . Cing you to sort of
hold your criticism. . . .

LANSDALE: Well, Bissell definitely felt the same way.
Bissell was a very hard-working, intense person,
at-
almost high-strung type of individual. He
A
became rather impatient with my questioning
of the changed concept when it took place. I thought
Initially if they had the correct personnel
that
and they had a correct reading of dissent
inside of Cuba, that was a fair chance to do
something. My only concern at the time was/:
did the CIA have the Americans who could work
with such a situation? I just didn't know
yes,
of any, but I was assured that there were such
Americans, but I'm not certain that there were.
=
A
O'BRIEN: Did you question the kind of intelligence that
was coming out about Cuba and the expected
reaction of Cubans to an invasion and the
:

-10-

reaction to Castro in general?

LANSDALE: Just in very general terms. : I didn't have
enough concrete and specific information
myself that was separate from theirs. Most
of the intelligence take at the time, avail-
able inside the U.S. government, was pretty
colored with this dissatisfaction and state-
ments of it. So, I had no real way of
determining the accuracy or inaccuracy of it.
Some of the adjectives used in describing this
in briefings to us alerted me a little bit.
like
of a
It just sounded too much like a sales job on
A
a viewpoint. I'd question that, whether that
was an accurate thing, so this is about as far
as I went.
did
O'BRIEN: How does a guy like Douglas react? Do you
recall?

LANSDALE: Well, he approved of the plan, so he and the
A
others at the policy level approved of going
:
I was his
forward with it, and developing it.
what was my staff job? (That was my staff job),
thing? (That
advisor on this thing!
and I told him to be certain to get the JCS
:'
to give it a real hard scrutiny and to come
-11-

up with details of whether it could succeed
or not. That was my last advisory role with
him. I was taken off advising on the project
after that, actually by my own request because
I was apparently causing too much trouble and
.. rks of progress.

O'BRIEN: 's the reaction of the Joint Chiefs, people
like Lemnitzer, towards this? Is there an
institutional rivalry or bureaucratic rivalry
here in their minds?

LANSDALE: Somewhat, somewhat. It was a little bit as
!
though, well, somebody's going to be playing
Boy Scouts, so this isn't really rivalry.
:

They had a difficult time taking this really.
seriously. Later, I know, when the JCS got
and helped
:

in on the actual planning of this, they became
much more serious on it because they had a
share of it.

O'BRIEN: Well, do you get involved in the informing
of McNamara and Gilpatric about this? Do you
get any way of sensing what their reactions
are on first being informed?

LANSDALE: No. They had apparently known by the time I

and
-12-

met them, I didn't get in on that. The one
wowd have
person who has a view of their reactions
[William F.]
:
would probably be Bill Bundy, (William P.
Bundy) who I know at the time was discussing
this with them...

O'BRIEN: Did you have . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bundy and
his fee . . . . . . . at that point?.
....

LANSDALE: Yes. This was a little out of Bundy's field.
He was always trying to figure out what the
chances were, the percentages of win or loss.
a bit
و
He was low and I hadn't known the final plan
^
:
on this thing, and Bundy did, and he asked me
what I thought. I told him, well, if the JCS
maybe shade.
guarantees something, you can take it 10 percent
lower than that and go along with it. I'm not
sure that they know a clandestine operation,
but they'd sure know a military landing, whether
Given some of the
it would succeed or not.
why, shade it
unknowns in this thing, I say that by 10 percent
and go along with the figure." Well, apparently
they had given it a high chance of success,
the JCS had, because Bundy said, "Well, you mean
Λ
"ק
it's going to succeed then. I said, "Well, I
-13-

So
O'BRIEN:
don't know." I gathered that he felt it would
succeed.
Well, then, you are pretty much out of touch
(from the point that you battle into
with it until it actually comes of) INTO YOU LANS DALE: That's
Righto O'BRIEN:
bany
didn't get into any of the changes in the
plans there at all?

LANSDALE: No. I left at around the first of December,
September something--it was
O'BRIEN:
:

'60. I really didn't follow it from then on.
Does
Did anyone come to you from the Agency or
from State or from the White House, as far
as that goes, and attempt to seek an indepen-
with
on success
dent judgement on your part, for your background and all, on

LANSDALE: No.
:

O'BRIEN: How about the noise level on this? Obviously
you're out of it, but is there much talk
about it that is sort of filtering down
amerge
in Defense and the people that are around you
A
that really have no need to know and direct
involvement?

LANSDALE: I wasn't aware of it. There might have been,
but I have no knowledge of that.
:
O'BRIEN: When the thing, the operation, actually begins
and the landing has taken place, do you come

-14-

into it again at that point at any time?
LANSDALE: No.

O'BRIEN: You do become involved in Cuban affairs at a
later time.

LANSDALE: Later, yes.

O'BRIEN: When do you have any-
:
thi . . . . . . . . . . . . with the (Maxwell) Taylor
committeer which makes the inquiry about it?
:

LANSDALE: I met with them once, and they weren't interested
و
3^
:
with the Bay of Pigso. They were interested
ain the
in the decision-making process, of making of
policy, and asked me if I had any ideas on
how better the President could be served in
the policy decisions and arriving at them.
The thing was right at that moment, McNamara
had previously asked me for the same thing,
and I had come up with a proposal for him
which he put to Kennedy. I just told them
Well, I had some ideas but I had given them
to somebody else, and I was skeptical of the
:
boss anyhow and this was on putting together
A
task forces. The Kennedy administration had
eliminated a bureaucratic boondoggling thing

-15-
O'BRIEN:
in -
and what the hell was that called?
A

A
A
OCB? (Operations Coordinating Board)

LANSDALE: Yes, the OCB I pointed out that the one
good thing about it was that the principals
went, who are talking
met for lunch and I said the rest of it's for the birds,
But to get men in government,
to
- are held responsible by
him for managing men, money, and material and
so on, who can understand the problem well
enough around the lunch table to have one
secretary or deputy secretary or under secretary
- and so on, was
"
to
say, well, we'll take care of that, a
than
good way of doing business, and with the
president's own national security man sitting
in on it, going back and telling him this is
going to happen for these reasons, why, it
was a good control mechanism. So essentially
all I told the Taylor people and told
McNamara in my paper was that this function had
been eliminated, along with cutting out alot of
in it and
dead wood, and there was some live wood, Now
A
about restoring the live wood? This essentially
was what my proposition was with the task force,
A
-16-

of getting the people most concerned with
something who could operate for the
:
president, and having them get together and
help form the policy, get the president's
approval, and they were the same ones who
then
could sta immediately.
Not to create another big
bureaucratic thing. "And of course, after they
first tried this, it rapidly started becoming
a big bureaucratic thing. The task forces
that were later set up were just big staffs
sitting in different buildings. It was
almost like OCB again, not quite, but it got
go g
out of hand. Anytime you try to change the
the
A
government around, it seems to come right back
YOU 'BRIEN: Yes, we have a tendency of doin
in form again and close ranks on it. But that that that that that LANSDA
that
was all I did with the Taylor group. Inciden-
tally; in that inquiry into the Cuban bit was
the first time that I met Robert F Bobby
Kennedy. For some reason or other, I didn't
A
connect him personally with the pictures of
and whatnot,
:
him and so on, on TV, and I wondered what the
youngster was doing sitting in the meeting

-17-

talking so much.
?
O'BRIEN: Was he pretty tough

LANSDALE: Well, he wasn't tough. He was the most ineter-
ested of anyone in the room there of what I
would say on things and plague me with many
questions.

O'BRIEN: How were his questions? Was he fairly naive
about the problems?

:LANSDALE: Now, this was on problems questions of how the
V..
government would operate at a decision level,
A
and they weren't naive at all. He had a very
good understanding. He was very much concerned
about his brother's getting good service in the
:and
way of information and full details, of alterna-
tives and so on, on a policy decision.
"
^
O'BRIEN: Well, if you, you know, in that period right
after the Bay of Pigs--of course you had a lot
of contacts and friendships in other places
LANSDALE: Yes. O'BRIEN:
outside the Pentagon.. What kind of an impact
does
did the Bay of Pigs have, let's say over in
the Agency, and State Department, and in Defense,
and in the White House?

-18-

LANSDALE: It was a traumatic experience at top levels throughout
of the government. I think it affected
V
President Kennedy more than any other single
thing. It was almost a taboo subject if you
were going in to do business and to get an
approven something over even hinted
Such
a Juba
Juban affair. It was an
intensefully sore subject among all of these
people. I felt that almost all of the key
executives in the administration must have

dreamt about it at night or something, and
during the daytime working hours they just
even
didn't even want to contemplate it. And yet
9
they were honest enough people that they knew
they had to face up and look at it and would do
so, but it was an extremely emotional subject
with them, very much so.
:

O'BRIEN: Well, in terms of the Agency, there's a number
of programs and, of course, involvements in
operations that they have. Do you see any
shift in these, any attempt on the part of the
Defense Department to move into some of these
areas which they felt were traditionally theirs
-19-
