176-10037-10493 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10493
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Information Report Re: Comments
DATE: 1/28/1962
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General
11/13/61-11/31/61. Box 6.

EXEMPT NLK-81-213

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains Information, affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplanage Laws Time 18, U.S.C. Sed
1793. and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/500,097

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM DATE DISTR. 28 JANUARY 1962
SUBJECT COMMENTS OF TRAN VAN LY ON THE DESIRABILITY
PROBLEMS AND CONSEQUENCES OF A COUP D'ETAT
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE COSTIN

INFO.
DATE OF
25 JANUARY 1962
SOURCE
REFERENCES : IN 18750
TAYLOR
KAYSEN
26 JANUARY 1962 BUKERL
PLACE &
DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON JOHNSON
FIELD REPORT NO: PF-VS7006
APPRAISAL 3

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE:
A. VIETNAMESE NATIONAL ARMY OFFICER WORKING AT THE GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS,
FROM TRAN VAN LY.
CODDEER

ON 25 JANUARY 1962, TRẦN VAN LY, OPPOSITION LEADER IMPRISONED
FROM NOVEMBER 1960 TO FEBRUARY 1961 FOLLOWING STHE CATTEMPTED COUP
OF 1960, SAID THAT CERTAIN GENERAL OFFICERS HAVEL CONSULTED WITH HIM
ON THE POSSIBILITY OF ATTEMPTING A COUP D'ETAT (FIELD COMMENT.
(TDCS-3/500,042)
FVS-6999/BY THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED HIM AS POLITICAL ADVISOR TO
GENERAL NGHIỆM SUCHEA COUP WOULD BE TO PREVENT THE COUNTRY FROM
FALLING TINTO THE HANDS OF THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS A(VC).
EY SAID THAT HE WAS IN AGREEMEN WITH THESE GENERALS IN
PRINCIPỨC ON THE NECESSITY FOR A COUNTDIETAN, BUTEWAS WORRIED BOTH
ABOUT THE METHOD TO BE EMPLOYED HAND THE CONSEQUENCES TO LY WASL
AWAPE THAT CUERPAIN FOEFT POALLAND RELIGIOBSTGROUPS IWISHEDATOT MUUNTOFE
CONFIDENTIAL
ECLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROL

PAUFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OD DIA EXO
VTFS
AIDS
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

Crazy - DESHITRO COV

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTRO
TDCS-3/500,097
IN18750
PAGE

A COUP WITH THE SUPPORT OF MILITARY ELEMENTS. HOWEVER THESE GROUPS
WERE TOO DIVIDED TO BE SUCCESSFULLY BELIEVED THE ONLY SUCCESSFUL
COUF WOULD BE ONE MOUNTED BY THE ARMY ITSELF (FIELD COMMENT.
TRAN VAN LY WAS A MEMBER OF THE "CARAVELLE" OPPOSITION GROUP

ACCORDING TO THE SOURCE OF FVS-5908 HE WAS MOVING TOWARD A
NEUTRALIST POSITION IN 1960 AND WAS DISAPPOINTED OVER CONTINUED
SUPPORT TO DIỀM BY THE USA BRITISH OFFICIAL SERVICE REPORTED

THAT WHEN HE WAS RELEASED FROM PRISON ON 8 FEBRUARY 1961, HE WAS
FORCED TO SIGN A DECLARATION OF LOYALTY TO/DIEM.)
SOUTH VIETNAMESE PRESIDENT

SPEAKING IN GENERAL TERMS, LY SAID THAT IN SETTING UP SUCH
COUP TWO THINGS WERE IMPORTANT: TO AVOID BLOODSHED AND TO
ORGANIZEAS SMALL A FORCE AS POSSIBLE IN ORDER NOT TO ALLOW THERE
FLAN OF ACTION TO BE EXPLOITED BY THE VC. LY'S SOLUTION WOULD BE

TO HAVE THE GENERAL OFFICERS DECLARE THE WHOLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM
TO BE IN A STATE OF SETGE. THE TROOPS WOULD THEN BE FORBIDDEN
* 108020

CE
TO MOVE WITH THOUT AN EXPRESS ORDER FROM THE PEVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE
DELE OF AND ALL ROADS LEADING TO SALIGONEHOUD RESOUARDED.
IN CASET THE COUP WEBE SUCCESSFACERICLUTINARY COMMITTEE
MECL OF THREE GENERAL OFFICERS WOULDACT PORT LAVERYDAY GOVERNMENT, BUSINESS
DALS WITH THE HELP OF TECHNICAL ADVISORS AND ESTIALIS THE SECRETARIES OF
STATE WHO WOULD HAVE REMAINED AT THEIR POSTS. DURING THI PERIOD
THE PEOPLE WOULD BE ABLE TO CHOOSE THE HEAD-OF-THE-STATE

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
TDCS-3/500,097

IN 18750
3
PAGE

5. (FIELD COMMENT. LY TALKED TO SOURCE IN GENERAL TERMS. IT
I'S NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS WAS BECAUSE OF RETICENCE ON LY'S PART IN
RESPECT TO SOURCE, OR WHETHER LY IS NOT IN FACT INVOLVED IN THE
ALLEGED PLANNING OF GENERAL NGHIEM.)
6. FIELD DISEM. STATE MAAG USOM CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF

CONFIDENTIAL
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
