176-10038-10032 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10038-10032
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: DOS
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Embtel 660 (Saigon) Re: Task Force on Vietnam
DATE: 11/16/1961
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: NSF: Countries: Vietnam, General, 11/16/61-11/17/61, box 195. Box 8

INCOMING TELEGRAM SANITIZED VERSIO
NLX-75-92 3

Department of Stare

SECRET

Action: 43 SECRET
Control: 9439
FE Rec'd: NOV. 16, 1961 019
3:50 a.m.
Info FROM: SAIGON
SS TO: Secretary of State
G
SP NO.: 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM
L
H
SO
EURSACTION DEPARTMENT 660, INFORMATION CINCPAC POLAD 2683
AID
PX LIMIT DISTRIBUTION
IOP TASK FORCE VN
INR
CIA
OSD
ARMY
AIR OPPORTUNITIES FOR EXPLOITATION OF NEW MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL
NAVY POLICE AND SECURITY SERVEGE (COLONEL NGUYEN VAN Y VICE GENERAL
NGUYEN VANELA) EFALBAINTO CTWO GENERAL FIELDS, INTELLIGENCE AND...
A NATIONAL POLICE BOTH CAS AND USOM HAVE FOR CONSIDERABLE TIMES
BEEN STYMIED BUT WITH CHANGE BELIEVE REAL PROGRESS CAN BE
MADE. THIS WILL REQUIRE WORKING OUT OF DETAILED PROGRAMS FOR
ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE TRAINING, ETC., AND ADDITIONAL U.S.
PERSONNEL FORNECESSARY ELAISON AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
DC AS HAS ALREADY PROPOSED TO IT'S HEADQUARTERS DEVELOPMENT OF
NATIONAL COMMUNIST PARTY PENETRATION SERVICE TO SERVE AS
SPECIAL BRANCH OF SURETE, WHOSE CHARTER AT PRESENT COVERS
BOTH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES AND ORDINARY INVESTIGATIONS.
THIS "SPECEAL BRANCH WOULD HAVE REPRESENTATIVES AT PROVINCE
LEVELS AND BE MANAGED THROUGH REGIONAL DIRECTORATES. AT EACH
RMR REGIONAL DIRECTORATE, CAS WOULD PROPOSE ASSIGN AT LEAST ONE:
CAS OFFICER TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON AND COLLABORATION.
CONCERT WOULD BE FULL INTEGRATION HIS EFFORT INTO C
VIETNAMESELEFFORT. THIS WOULD REQUIRE FOLLOWING CAS COMMITMENT:

A. CAS OFFICERS FOR DIRECTORATES AT HUẾ, NHA TRANG, BAN ME
THUỘT, BIEN HOA, SAIGON/CHOLON, AND CAN THO, AS WELL AS ALREADY
SECRET
REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS
PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

SECRET

-2- 660 NOVEMBER 16, 21-1 AM FROM SAIGON

EXISTING PERSONNEL FOR LIAISON AT NATIONAL LEVEL. PERSONNEL
WOULD BE SUPPORTED BY NECESSARY INTERPRETERS, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.
B. PROVISION OF INTELLIGENCE AND COMMUNIST PARTY PENETRATION
TRAINING TO VIETNAMESE OFFICER PERSONNEL OF NEW SPECIAL BRANCH,
TAKEN FROM EXPERIENCED SURETE OFFICERS
C FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO GIVE PROVINCIAL SPECIAL BRANCH
OFFICERS FUNDS TO OPERATE AGENT NETWORKS IN PROVINCES.
EXACT SUM NOT YET DETERMINED BUT WI L'L BE SEEN TO BE SUBSTANT L'AL
BY MULTIPLYING NUMBER OF PROVINCES (38) BY REASONABLE MONTHLY
SUM FOR EACH PROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVE TO ENABLE HIM-HIRE
AGENTS AND PAY OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

3 USOM EQUALLY DETERMINED PROSECUTEE POTENTIAL FOR GREATER
COLLABORATION FOR DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL POLICE STRUCTURE WITH
REGULAR INVESTIGATORY FUNCTIONS OF SURE TE, TO PROVIDEDENCE VID
ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMPON EFFECTIVE NATIONAL BASIS TO BOLSTER
GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY THROUGHOUT COUNTRY, AND THUS CONTRIBUTE
TO CONTRBUTION CRIME -- DISORDER, OVERT COMMUNIST ACTION, ETC.
THIS WOULD COMPRISE OVER-ALL DEVELOPMENT USOM POLICE, SURETE AND
RELATED INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICES TO INCLUDE:

A CONSOLIDATION OF CIVIL POLICE FUNCTIONS UNDER THE SECRETARY
OF STATE FOR INTERIOR.

BA: DELINEATION OF FUNCTIONS AS THEY PERTAIN TO THE SEPARATE
ELEMENTS OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.

CTHE ADOPTION OF A REALISTIC TRAINING PROGRAM, GEARED
TO AN APPROPRIATE PROGRAM OF COMMODITY PROCUREMENT.

D. THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN EFFECTIVE PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICE.
USOM ENVISIONS DEVELOPMENT BASED UPON MUTUAL AGREEMENT AND
UPON RECIPIENTS'S ABILITY TO ABSORB INTRODUCTION OF NEW
CONCEPTS.

4. THIS BEING MADE TASK FORCE MATTER DUE MY CONVICTION IT IS
SUBSTANTIAL WE MOVE FORWARD-IN-BOTH--ABOVE--FIELDS TO MAXIMUM-
DEGREE POSSIBLE, TAKING FULL ADVANTAGE OF WHAT APPARENTLY
SECRET

SECRET

-3- 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAI GỌN

IS REAL NEW BREAK IN SITUATION. URGE FULLEST SUPPORT FROM TASK
FORCE LEVEL AND ABOVE OF THESE SUGGESTIONS FOR ACTIVITY BY.
CAS AND USOM, AND SUPPORT IN WASHINGTON FOR NECESSARY PERSONNEL
AND BUDGET ADDITIONS WHICH MAY BE INVOLVED.
NOLTING
MM

SECRET
