176-10036-10078 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
İDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10078
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE: Opposition in Khanh Hoa Province
DATE: 9/13/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2

Janmized via buir KA 1/15

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of
CONFIDENTIAL RETAIN OR DESTROY
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS ILC
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/522,229

SUBJECT 1. OPPOSITION IN KHANH HOA PROVINCE TO ARMING DATE DISTR. 13 SEPTEMBER 1962
MOUNTAIN TRIBESMEN AND TO THE STRATEGIC
HAMLET PROGRAM
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE SMITH-BUNDY
2. CONFLICT AMONG PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES
DUNGAN
KAYSEN
DATE OF LATE AUGUST 1962 REFERENCES INKILBOOF
INFO. PETERSEN
SCHLESINGER
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 SEPTEMBER 1962)
DATE ACO. TAYLOR
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 7923
APPRAISAL
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
SOURCE A MEDIUM-LEVEL OFFICIAL (C) IN: THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE ARSON
: KLEIN
KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS

1. ON 29 AUGUST 1962 BUI BO, GENERAL SECRETARY, KHANH HOA PROVINCE
:

COUNCIL, GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOR (CVTC), AND MEMBER
OF THE PROVINCIAL COMMITTEE, REPORTED TO CVTC HEADQUARTERS THAT KHANH
HOA PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES ARE STRONGLY OPPOSED TO THE AMERICAN POLICY
OF ECONOMIC AID, TRAINING, AND ARMS FOR THE TRIBAL PEOPLE. THESE
AUTHORITIES FEAR THAT THE TRIBESMEN MAY INDISCRIMATELY KILL INNOCENT
VIETNAMESE, ESPECIALLY IN CASES WHERE THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS
MINGLE WITH THE LOCAL POPULACE.

2. BO ALSO SAID THAT THE PEOPLE IN THE PROVINCE ARE OPPOSED
TO THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM, BECAUSE THEY ARE REQUIRED TO
CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
GROUP I
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
Excluded fram automatic
downgrading and
declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00 EXO
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
5-62
FORM OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(15-:

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS IN 21488
CONFIDENTIAL TDCS-3/522,229
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(When Filled In) PAGE 2

PROVIDE TOO MUCH WORK, MATERIAL, AND MONEY. THIS OPPOSITION HAS
BECOME SO STRONG THAT PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES HAVE ISSUED ORDERS
FORBIDDING ADDITIONAL DEMANDS FOR LABOR, MATERIAL, OR CASH.
:
3. BO REPORTED CONFLICT BETWEEN COMPETING FACTIONS IN THE
PROVINCE, WHICH THE PROVINCE CHIEF, MAJOR LE TAP, IS UNABLE TO
HANDLE. THE DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR SECURITY, BA (FNU), A
CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF BRIGADIER GENERAL TON THAT DINH, COMMANDING
GENERAL, 11 CORPS, IS MORE INFLUENTIAL THAN TẠP. TRUONG DINH CAC,
WHO HOLDS THE POSITION OF DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR ECONOMIC MATTERS,
A POSITION NOT NORMALLY FOUND IN PROVINCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, IS THE
REAL POWER IN THE PROVINCE. CAC WAS ASSIGNED TO THE PROVINCE BY
NGO DINH CAN, BROTHER OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM AND POLITICAL
LEADER OF CENTRAL VIETNAM, FOR THE SPECIFIC PURPOSE OF BRINGING ALL
MAJOR PROVINCIAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES UNDER THE CONTROL OF CAN AND
HIS FACTION IN THE CAN LAO PARTY BO DESCRIBED THE DEPUTY PROVINCE
CHIEF FOR ADMINISTRATION, YANG (FNU), AS A GOOD MAN BUT COMPLETELY
LACKING IN AUTHORITY.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM CINCPAC
PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

CONFIDENTIAL END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
