176-10036-10115 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA -
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10115
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE : 7/16/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

NLK-67-101
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION
DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/655,558

SUBJECT STATUS OF COUP D'ETAT PLANS DATE DISTR. 16 JULY 1963
OF TRAN KIM TUYEN'S GROUP

DATE OF
INFO. 15 JULY 1963 PRECEDENCE. ROUTINE
REFERENCES. IN 80366

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (15 JULY 1963)
APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO EVS 9309
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A HIGH-LEVEL VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS AMONG GOVERNMENT
LEADERS.

1. ON 15 JULY 1963 AN INDIVIDUAL ASSOCIATED WITH THE COUP D'ETAT
GROUP HEADED BY DR. TRAN KIM TUYEN, CURRENTLY AN ADVISOR AT THE PRES
IDENCY, SAID THAT THEIR NATIONALIST, ANTI-COMMUNIST COUP WOULD OCCUR

"SOON." HOWEVER, AS THE VIET CONG WERE REPORTEDLY PLANNING TO INTEN
SIFY THEIR ACTIVITIES DURING THE WEEK PRIOR TO THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE
GENEVA ACCORDS 20 JULY THE COUP WOULD NOT BE STAGED UNTIL AFTER THAT
DATE THE COUP WOULD BE DIRECTED AGAINST PRESIDENT DIEM AS WELL AS
THE NGÔ ĐÌNH NHUS AND THE GROUP PLANNED TO ESTABLISH A CONSTITUTIONAL
CONFIDENTIAL
HR
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND USE ONLY
STATEING DIA ARMY ACSI NAVYL AIRS CS SECDEF NSA
STATE2DIR
USTA OCI CONG MOCR
GROUP
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
SECRET
WO LOVE INTO
FORM IK
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS:
SANITIZED JUL 89.15

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
(When Filled In)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCSDB-3/655,558
IN
80366
PAGE
2

REGIME BEHIND VICE PRESIDENT NGUYEN NGOC THO (FIELD COMMENT FVS-
9286 GDCSDB-3/655,471), FROM ANOTHER SOURCE, REPORTED DETAILS OF TUYEN'S
PLAN AND THAT HE WANTED TO MOVE BEFORE THE END OF JULY.)

FIELD DISSEM STATE (AMBASSADOR) USMACY (GENERAL HARKINS)
CINCPAC PACFLT ARPACO PACAF CORS Fonte MOLLE ALYOED OMLJE VLIES DIT!

ZKOOLS HEYDED DA DHA HA ZLTA VW VDAICOS VI 146 6BЕЗ
1 ОН 12 ООГА ARM TUDIED MILH THE CONG DELVI

JAZIANEGA
0712.0E
TUEMAREYOU DHOMA ESSATO 3 (3) 450 езика и
-BVITATU2 VILAGO DUO MOITANAM O31AII JAVSKU UNT

SKAJR TATEO
EUTATE

SECRET
VELERENCSE
SKECEDENCE SCALIGE

BELOSE HOT TO

COENDOR MESSAGE COND ПЕС ФИГА
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND, USE ONLY
