177-10001-10061 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/2011
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10061

RECORD SERIES : NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/13/1963
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #170

v9.1 26
NW 50955 DocId: 32282901 Page 1

TELEGRAM IN.ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 170
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
(When Filled In) CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY CUBA REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/658,469

SUBJECT ALERT STATUS OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC DATE DISTR. 13 DECEMBER 1963
MISSIONS, AS RESULT OF THE ASSAS-
SINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE OF
INFO. 9 DECEMBER 1963 ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES IN 79459
PLACE &
DATE ACO. 9 DECEMBER 1963
APPRAISAL FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A SENIOR CUBAN DIPLOMAT WHO IS AN ASTUTE OBSERVER AND HAS DEMON-
STRATED MATURITY, DISCERNMENT, AND RELIABILITY IN HIS PAST
REPORTING.

1. ABOUT 2 DAYS AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT —-BUNDY-SMITH
—ALEXANDER
JOHN F. KENNEDY, CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ABROAD BEGAN TO —BELK
—BERECK
RECEIVE A SERIES OF MESSAGES PLACING THEM ON A SPECIAL ALERT —CLABE
—DINGEMAN
STATUS. THESE MESSAGES WERE OBVIOUSLY DUE TO APPREHENSION —CAEL
—1UARESTAL
BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT THAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUND I NG —JOHNSON
—KILDUFF
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY MIGHT LEAD TO HOSTILE —KLEIN
—KOMER
ACTIVITY DIRECTED AGAINST THE MISSIONS. THE DIPLOMATIC —SAUNDERS
—SCHLESINGE
MISSIONS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WERE EXHORTED TO EXERCISE —SMITH, WM, Y.

EXTREME VIGILANCE, TO MOUNT A NIGHT-AND-DAY WATCH OF MISSION
PREMISES, TO BE CERTAIN THAT THERE WERE "NO COMPROMISING

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS GROUP 1
SECRET Excluded from automatic
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/ downgrading and
(When Filled In) declassification
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC XXXXXXX OCI ONE XXX 00 FBI
STATE/DIR REPCINCLANT INS OCR ORR EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM
1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (15-20)
10-62

NW 50955 DocId:32282901 Page 2

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
(When Filled In)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/ TDCSDB-3/658,469 IN 79459
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY PAGE 2
DOCUMENTS ON THE PREMISES," AND TO BE ON GUARD AGAINST HOSTILE
PROVOCATIONS.

2. ONE CHIEF OF MISSION, WHO, FOLLOWING HIS USUAL
PRACTICE, REQUESTED BY TELEPHONE PERMISSION TO ACCEPT A
LONG-STANDING INVITATION TO VISIT A COUNTRY FRIENDLY TO
CUBA, WAS TOLD THAT HE MUST FORMALLY SUBMIT HIS REQUEST
BY CABLE. HE DID SO ON 29 NOVEMBER, BUT IT WAS NOT UNTIL
6 DECEMBER THAT HE RECEIVED THE AUTHORITY TO QUIT HIS POST.

3. AS OF 9 DECEMBER THERE HAD BEEN NO INDICATION FROM
HAVANA THAT THE ALERT ORDER WAS TO BE CONSIDERED REVOKED.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

NW 50955 DocId: 32282901 Page 3
