177-10001-10063 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Date: 8/26/201 JFK Assassination System Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10063

RECORD SERIES: NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 11/24/1963
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #188

v9.1 12
NW 50955 DocId:32282903 Page 1

TELEGRAM INI ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET
(When Filled In)
COUNTRY: URUGUAY REPORT NO. TDCS-3/565,829
SUBJECT CUBAN PRECAUTIONS FOLLOWING ASSASSINATION DATE DISTR. 24 NOVEMBER 1963 DY-SMITH ALEXANDER
OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY PRECEDENCE ROUTINE BELK
BRUDECK
DATE OF 22 NOVEMBER 1963 REFERENCES DINGEMAN
INFO. DUNGAN
PLACE & URUGUAY, MONTEVIDEO (23 NOVEMBER 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 2 FIELD REPORT NO. HUM-2414 FORRESTAL
SOURCE A URUGUAYAN POLICE OFFICIAL (B). KILDOF
KLEIN
KOMER
SAUNDERS
SCHLESINGER
SMITH, WM. Y.
(CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE)

1. RICARDO GUTTIEREZ TORRENS, THIRD SECRETARY AND CIS/ CHIEF OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MONTEVIDEO, TELEPHONED THE
MONTEVIDEO POLICE AT 1710 HOURS (MONTEVIDEO TIME) ON 22 NOVEMBER TO
REQUEST EXTRA POLICE PROTECTION FOR THE CUBAN EMBASSY. GUTTIEREZ
SAID THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED REPORTS THAT A MOB WAS PLANNING
TO STONE THE EMBASSY. (FIELD COMMENT: THE NEWS OF PRES.
KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION WAS RECEIVED IN MONTEVIDEO AT
APPROXIMATELY 1600 HOURS, MONTEVIDEO TIME).

2. THE POLICE FURNISHED EXTRA PROTECTION TO BOTH THE CUBAN
EMBASSY AND TO THE SOVIET LEGATION, ALTHOUGH THE LATTER HAD

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

SECRET
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC I ONE OCR ORR XXX 00 EXO
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (15-20)
10-62
NW 50955 DocId: 32282903 Page 2

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
(When Filled in) : NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/565,829 IN 67186
PAGE 2

MADE NO REQUEST. AS OF 1600 HOURS 23 NOVEMBER THERE HAVE BEEN
NO DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST EITHER DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATION. (FIELD
COMMENT: THE POPULACE OF MONTEVIDEO HAS BEEN PROFOUNDLY SHOCKED
AND GRIEF STRICKEN OVER PRES KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION. A SPONTANEOUS
CROWD ESTIMATED BY PRESS TO COMPRISE 3000 PERSONS
MARCHED TO AMERICAN EMBASSY RESIDENCE EVENING OF
22 NOVEMBER TO EXPRESS THEIR SORROW).

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCSO.

SECRET END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId: 32282903 Page 3
