Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10155
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC
2107 Note). Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10155

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 03/21/78
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
SHAPIRO, HOWARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 3.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 2

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Howard Louis Shapiro 12/31/78

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

114-44-4360 Appointment
Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business
Specify Date
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res: 956 of 95th Congress..

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_____ If applicable, Level_____ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date_ January 2 19 79
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only: APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Office Code ID
Monthly Annuity $__________.00 as of Benefits
Payroll (Revised: August 1, 1977).
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Howard Louis Shapiro 3-21-78

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

114-44-4360 Appointment
Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title. Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business_ _
Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Researcher Attorney $18,000

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of_95t& Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)-:

Position Number _____ If applicable, Level_____ Step-----

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
March 23
Date 19 78
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
(Type or print name and title of above official) (Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification. Act and for Committee em-.
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only: APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office Code ID
Monthly Annuity $_______ .00 as of Benefits
Payroll.. (Revised: August 1, 1977)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 4
MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk
d.com.
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel
1

DATE: 22 March 1978
RE: Mr. Howard Shapiro

Please be advised that effective March 21, 1978,
Mr. Howard Shapiro has accepted the position of Research
Attorney with the John F. Kennedy Task Force, HSCA. His
effective starting salary will be $18,000.00.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,
please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 5
Shapiro
Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to
Any Current Member of Congress

Date 3/23/78

To: House Select Cooum. on ASSASSinations
(Employing Authority)

☑ I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any
current Member of Congress.

father nephew sister-in-law
mother niece stepfather
son husband stepmother
daughter wife stepson
brother father-in-law stepdaughter
sister mother-in-law stepbrother
uncle son-in-law stepsister
aunt daughter-in-law half-brother
first cousin brother-in-law half-sister

☐ I certify that I am the of the
(Relationship)
Honorable
NW 88326
Docld:32244097 Page 6
(Name of Member to whom related)

Howard L. Shapira
(Employee

GPO 16-78695-3
