2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT Folder 9
#2 B HSCA

TO: Mr. Michael Goldsmith FROM: Office of Legislative Counsel
Select Committee on Assassination Central Intelligence Agency
House of Representatives Room 7 D 35
3381 House Annex #2 Washington, D.C. 20505
2nd & D Street. S..W 26 Jun73

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:

INFORMATION ACTION RETENTION LOAN

CONTROL NUMBER DOC. DATE SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred) CLASS.

Notes of Holf and Goldsmith (HSCA request (Wolf) 25 Jun 78 SECR
0001742 -)0001761

Information on 201 files HSCA request (Wolf 25 Jun 78 SECRET
0001762 -)0001781.

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE./

RECEIPT 19570

SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above documents) RETURN TO OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ROOM 7 D 35

DATE OF RECEIPT" WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505
25. 37728 1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY
2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK
3 - GOLD

Briefing 2/14/78 SECRET

Bill Donnelly - Chief of Information Services Staff
Yuke Duffy?
Hee Coyle
Virginia Torres

Opening of 201
Operational picture
Trace would be decorated
Trace produces from onset of refs., not documents. Usually 60’s.
If it produced index cards.
Who opens 201?
Lase officer - it’s his judgment who determines whether to
If no intention of continuing interest, 201 may not be caused
If the da din. & is/cosmet
If the da din. & is/cosmet a source still on file, CIA may
not open a 201.
If this type of scf0 course is, it would go into index.

Here are certain criteria
1) Recruitment
2) High-Level Communist officials

Heu are sore operation where are out of headquarters, in which
Well, a case officer is dead

PH.I -
R.I - might involvement

There should be a clue. Interesting reasons why a patt-person is not
recruited.
There should be a reference in 1st file to document in 2nd file if
There is one.

SECRET 0001742

PAGE 1 of 20
COPY NO.

CIA - State Dept. integration
SECRET
“Deep heef cover - where S.A. employees are aware that CIA amp. is in fact implored by
More integrated cover where a person would do a full-time S.A. Job & also
at CIA job which is unbeknownst to rest of S.D. employees. - call the
a “deep official cover” as well as a “deep cover"

Central
Cover Staff
Am. citizens or most foreigners used in some manner would, as a
general rule, have a Security Waiver.
If that pure was military agency or from military,
that org. would have to be consulted.

Probably would worry what org’s
PLS- Policy & Co-ord. Staff.
I would be involved in co-ord. of a project in which sold the CIA
another org. was involved
To the extent of CIA involvement, files would be maintained. That is
Not to say that rotter would not have more comprehensive files.

Project file
Chapters
OCE-
DCR - Office of Central Restraints of ships, things of intelligence
Nature are maintained there.
Photos of project participants
Photos of turists would not be of interest
Office Covered/evoured under

P&L: Fuscribed & Limited - refers to communications which are
compartmentalized
Opening of P&L channel of comm. is determined by one of 3 persons
-Chief of P&L, AADO, or ADO

SECRET 0001744

PAGE 3 of 20
COPY NO.

SECRET

This has always been true - In earlier times, it may have been restricted
By wre fever persons.
P&L communication may, in time, be downgraded; may never be destroyed.

Is it possible, in context of a CI threat, in case of our hypothetical that safp.
would not be compiled in a 201 file the, it is conceivable that
mary docs. would exist in thesystem & not be compelled into a 201 if then
doesn't appear to be a threat

Pseudo: false name type of communication.
Wypto: Used to it. area of us. By digytapt., followed by group of letters
You cannot assign a cryptonym of out having a 201#

If hypo. Soldier lets des given away mil. secrets & then defector, a 201 file
would not necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter.
CIA staff may have had interests in defector
In wally 60’s, there was an interest in defectors.

Dano hypo Arved on ZeRIFLE:
574 A form: request to put doc. into system
? 1997
In op. sued as ZRRIFLE does
sato system except upon determination of offer handling case.

"Sleeper agent" hypo: # sleepers in comm. China [station #ue]]
Doesn't necessarily have to know it since it is being sure
From Natre. - yom ASP to IT Staff reasonable scenario
Would a 201 de opened or steepu?

Competing of secrecy Da. Seing able to keep track of sleeper
-ND201-2.0.122.1.-
Change of steeper to Am. sodium defecting to E. Zumary's - report comes in
Af from reliable source stating that sleeper is problding rep.

SECRET 0001745

PAGE 4 of 20
COPY NO. mc
:
SECRET

This has always been tile - In earlier times, it may have been restricted
by wre fever persons
P&L communication may, in tine, be downgraded; may never be destroyed.

Is it possible, in context of a et trest, in cave of an dypottetual that isfp.
would not be compiled in a 201 dele he, it is concewable that
mary dres. could uxist in the sustem & not be compelled into a 201
docent appear to be a threat

Pseudo: yabse me system of wmunication.
Wypto: Used to it. area of us. By digraph, followed og group of letters
You cannot ansign a cryptonym of out deving a 201 #

If hypo. soldier its has given away mil, secrets & then defecte, a 201 fele
would not see necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter.
I staff may cheve had istorusts in defector
In wally 60's, there was an interest in defectors.

Dan's Myps Javed on ZeRIFLE:
2: request to put doe. ints sistem
574 A form:
? 1997
In op. sued as ZRRIFLE. severely Fet-meght not go
cato suten except upon dettimisation of offers handling case.

"Sleeper agent" hypo: to sleepers in comm. China Station #ue].
doesn't allesaik to know it sixer it is being sur
from #gtes. - yom AAP to LT Stahl- reasonable scenario
-
Would a 201 de opened or sleeper?

Competing of secrecy Da. being able to keep track of steeper
-ND201-....-
Change of steeper to Am. siden defecting to E. Sumary - report cothes in
Af from relcable source stating that sleeper is probding inp.

SECRET 0001745

PAGE 4 of 20
(mc)

SECRET

Plans would take place in small room in I staff.
Firm must be
by 200
signed by -
A file would be held at I sta
Problems: Communications

Op. Mles can generally sold to guidelines.

Is it possible for sorreose to have both a 201 file & Personal File? yrs

ECRET 0001746

PAGE 5 of 20

OLUNCIL

Records Administration - helping diffe directionates met up
-Bruce Johnson лесков ју
+ George Frattas

RID defunct designation for purt. 1. Info
Services Staff at handles 000 records

ODA

ISU
ISAN
(RA)

800 has a filing sys unto thell

Any
can call upon RA to give
assistance. But Do can also design it.
Owns filing sys ying w RAJ
guideline
formed of he other filing sys
by
work.

Day by day to
decentrelice
ISS Central js is also hearly of
indiv for division Cier ancel yuthes.
- for others of second valere

Special materials might not go into
Central file j. Special Correspondence

CRET 0001747

PAGE 6 of 20
COPY NO.

SECRET
“Prescibel & Limited" info
highly sensitive info Linn. Heat distr
to certain indivi

designation as is made by ADO
& senior staff officer
Pol designation - dels cover agent in
hostile territory m design
this.
thy would not
be uncommon cases of this kind

10 or 15 yoN ago, wl suple remitive
opentions, this was relatively common

Possi for something to be so sensitive
that no 201 file is an agreed.

CI staff has fave accumulation
many you s now catching up
of
olice names in central index.

porsi to that the
PHL file is
-hast

Could open 201 file who giving indication
of prior answer w/~CIA. This, according
to Johnson, would to improve the

SECRET 0001748

PAGE 7 of 20
:
SECRET

cyptonym would be in 20. file.

201- need for a continuing interest
in order to open a file

Source.......
asiel
adversary
K63

Counterintelligence threat.
201 file would be opened
Wli matter of chap or a wk -
assuming Source is accurate.

Idon American recidence
froin in Germany whe is giving info
to Russians..

To locate where document were
fited prior to bing placed in
file reke to astrued spy under
Document
Sleeps who
is Ber
is actually
open # to him, it is possi
case officer would
prevent opening of a 201 file

Intragency register

agent.
noring

SECRET 0001749

PAGE 8 of 20

SECRET

Graphics index - will not contain
routine pictures of tourists or
senn
drones
201 files will not neily contain
pities

Tony There is n inday -
Central indal

did say
the for would not
be retined for current purpose

prosi for 201 file not to contain
crypt

deepkover- there people don’t have quis
in their tyve neme
2013 are not opened in priectomyin

Bub Burton.
no
dution of a 201 file
locat offices have

working filte.
Filamenthe subject files - partien target

project files
policy & nyution

SECRET 0001750

SECRET

Project files in wh
involved,
for every project run by Agency, ie
even if proved run by another ag
(ie DOD).

Covers cover.

Stall involved in creation of

deep
Cover
A in setting up
deep asset peram could be at least 12........
- unless you them to .000
such to deep cover program s
exist

There is a central listing of
Cryptonymes. From this list you get
theul name, then go to 201 file if
there is one

Staff personnel

The design
a 2017
ager
include
There is no such filing sys by
true name, pseudonym, crypt, & noi

SECRET 0001751
:
SECRET
There is staff officer or
asset filing indicating what operations
/projects the staff officer/asset
involved in
Continue Case Miar
Contained
Continue Case Miar -
contributing
for capacite
comploye to exploitations
upon people who
controlled by CIA
spend assert may be the some.

agend becas it not holly in
Source provider of infe
asset - Buy someone who may privide
a service or info.

Name ck proces procedure to learn whet.
is known about
a
resulọ
file il

files

Name sway home wl
opening of 2001
True id may be kind out of 201, A
it woven Be in cryptouyur

SECRET 0001752
:
SECRET

There is a contrelines fiting rys by
true werme, guenlinnyu, ait,

- Called a true name index

to dust

DECRET 0001753

SECRET

Fretar

201
Subject-countries Grojects

exist for all projects that CIA
il infolved in

Finance
Logistics - You will be
Automobile clothing, supplies
Crypt Like
Communications - le clothing file on
able; microfilmed.

Security - Security filles; unde provedene
personnel files on applicants & agency display
for agents 2 file in office f. security

The Covent

bring date, Note of sec

/ investigation.. as sigumect
:
When he anything that. Le dos
writing a divected
assignment dispatch

Medics
Moms
Agests
are
They
on
They

Training - agents, i/ous, seseratories, offices

ODP Office of data procumentsed

GRET 0001754
PAGE 13
 :
ECRET Betey Wolf

CTA Briefing - January 26.1978

Records Admin. Brand - ADA

DOA
:
RIA supe
5. Infp. Services Staff - only ADO

ISAS - Jufo. Systems Analysis Staff

Records Adria. Brand

Can be used for any level whin any division, bet anyone can
design their own systems, providing they inform. RAB so that thay
can monitor compliance

"Famely Jewels Collection":

Highly sensitive info. tends to be durrted
from extra

Guidelines for handling & maintaining seeset best not
for completing" "bigot Must" umphesis on limiting recess
Mess...
SECRET 0001755
PAGE 14 of 20
COPY NO.

p.2 SECRET

Prescribed & Rimited" Distribution (P&L): doesn’t cover files but info, commun

"Sleeper" hypo: Operation could have been so sensitive as to
be kept out of feling, indexing system, parttelularly 10-15
years ago

may have been handed to Report Offices; may not have
wen used
201 #'s: assigned were assigned by KID 10-15 yrs.ago
Files were not designated PEL. Wred were “restricted” to confused
jurisdiction.

Cryptonym argument: part of Iss. - Central Top Secret & Hyptic Reference
Staff
“Sleeper” would have to have a cryptonym for op. purposes. Hould
list cryptonym w/201#→: No name, not in STAR system

Bob Bertove Basis for opening a 200 file...
Some Sense of continuing interest" entities as a potential source, agent,
KOB offeral can be cuder oppretural or countu-intell. purposes
Could liks etter to implement several report in STAR Systin
Could be opened in response to Ex.: levetidle source ref
to some suspected Ko8 peram O
201 cmuld be opened in a matter of drs., days or weeks if someone
recgnized info. of significance on part. person
"Files content clisting" - supplemental listing from STAR system
When did system Wotrast system of StAR: could find prior references to a part
start? document

ometime in 10's SECRET 0001756
PAGE 15 of 20
COPY NO.

P.3 SECRET

Central Source Register...
Ask Migg Sateragency Source Register: in effect probably sisee deg. of ITA
for details
(of latelligence Agencies) - doen't melude regular personnel-only
assets - would be based on true marxes - would it contain sexstile sources

201 files would not necessar
but may be x-ref. to a
spreifel decke

Chaphus collection in DO
At Gregg Indio desks will collect protos of persons of interest

S Contains photos of torrain, ate. Not particularly interested in group pies. Ite,
Ref. Guzz

histing of assets - would be maintaised in a waking mannus d
separate deske
DAO would be valy place where there would be access to this type
of Meting

Byi large, no 201
prior to

Opening File
files would
be

does of 201 Personnel trile
1 personnel
Staff Agent - dis felss would fappear under
lis perudonym.
Don't open 201's on poundryns, but eveld open ore on cryptonyms

SECRET 0001757

FACE 16 of 20
CODE NO.

p.4 SECRET
Daly I copy of a 201 fele; may be a working field copy

Subject feles
Project files
Policy & mgnd

Project file: operationd ngint. weerd of a given projicet
A-Administration
B. Support
Production

201 would have info. on assat involved in project; project file's info
is on operation telf

See Shegg Operational Details

Central list of cryptoxyns - where they're registered - you can
mated the cryptonym with the tule name. The more sensitive the
asset n operation - the more difficut it will be to aft to tour name.

nd file: Official

Soft file: any the
record value in
is hard yele
:
Project files: where are approvel, decision-making records filed

Bronnel Hile
contains: where worked; supervisors name; type of work dare; evaluations
Does not contain specific operations in which employee was wvolved

SECRET 0001756

p.5.... SECRET
Employees
4 Case officers - intelligence officers
lbatrest employees

Agents may or may
paid
their control
Berasest assets who are uider
Asset: someone from shon tay can get wefel seveces, including
Source: Source of information
Ask. Muzy PRQ: Baeve Mog. ifp
Way of ordering wailable inp
Hundamental doe.. in an agentis 201 fele

Hundemestel dor

"Mame check (= tree) process weludes dece of following
STAR have
Iravel files
Affice of Security
Provisional
Also do name chel

Negative Name trace
rees check list
secret
SECRET 0001759

P.6 SECRET

Jeorge Fratas

Suljed Files: countries
induidrate

201 Hiles:
Hould be a manner to maistais files on andh operation
miginating in slotted agency

Agent...
201:

Office of Security
of Finance
CT. Staff. might have info

Finance: acetys., vouchers, receipts; will have a cryptonym file
Logistics: support-autos, elotting, itte. necessary to run operatiore
Communications: cables, telegraphs
Maintain a chrono. file cable. on microfila
Cables are
Number, date station
Security: Seuietly filse

Started & eliminate
dual filing@mid-60's
Ouest- true name ated under posedonym of an agent
ture name of sa cemployee.
Wald with the same #

ask w Would an agent over sperate wader a preudonym
If it has pseudonym he is in file
(west) Imee name: Mog. data, reults of ichard. cheek, seerity
wolations & assignments
(covert) Pseudonym: Contains everything the pluon did list where
SECRET
-p.7. SECRET
de worked, what is did, itte
If an agent, it would have a POA for wach project the agent
was involved in.
If a staff employee it will as of assignments
a dist

"Wedies: Predicel histories on all staffers; on agents if they can get it
Psychological profiles

Training: Train agents, agrs., secys., officers.
Kur all training cextus
Office of Data Processing: Put together programe used by compiterus
Personnel: loy.
all agency emplaces
(true

ADO chas cuatral mdex
mdex X nife. tour manis, cryptoryres,
pseudonyms & 201 nambers
SECRET 0001761
