180-10145-10409
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Russell August Sangelle
SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78

Robert Genzman and Harold
Leap interviewed Russell August
Langelle at CIA Headquarters
on May 4, 1978. The interview
yielded the following information:
Sangelle joined the CIA in
September 1950, and worked
mainly in SR9 of the Soviet
Russia Division. In November
1955 he resigned from the Agency
on the pretext that he was
disgruntled with his assign-
ments. His CIA files would
have reflected this termination
of employment. The only document
to the contrary would have been
a memorandum from the Director
of Central Intelligence Allan
Bulles, stating that Sangelle
would retain all rights and benefits
when he returned to the CIA.
(at present this document would
probably be in his personnel
file.)

11112574
Approximately fifteen people
knew that Langelle was still
with the CIA after his resigna-
tion in 1955. These included
John Mawry (SE), Joe Bulik
(SR. 9), Quentin Johnson (Chief
of Operations), George Risevalper,
Frank Levy, Ted Pollings
SECRET
180-10145-10409
2

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
Jack Rindochi, June Sworbuck,
Ed Galloway, Leonard Mc Coy
(Reports and Requirements), Pierre
de Silva (COS), and someone at
the State Department's Office of
Security

At the time of his resignation,
Langelle applied for employment
with the State Department. In
the interim he worked at the
Hecht Company. In March 1956
he started to work at the
State Department as a Security
Officer. In September 1956 he
was sent to Vienna, where he
earned a reputation for being
a strict Security Officer at the
Embassy. He was deliberately tough
on CIA personnel who breached
security, in order to build his
cover as a non-CIA foreign
service officer. His salary was
paid by the State Department.
The CIA Chief of Station in Vienna
and the Ambassador knew he
was with the CIA.
11112575
Langelle served as the Security
Officer at the Moscow Embassy
from December 1957 to September
1959. In addition, he was the
senior CIA officer there. The
CIA contingent in Moscow
consisted of five or six officers.

3
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
working inside the Embassy and
approximately four outside. Inside,
with deep cover, were George
P. Winters (Econ. Officer), FNU
Mahoney, FNL Venables, and Steve
Washenko (Econ. or Agric. Officer).
Outside were Jean Leberman (teacher
at the American school) and
three or four students, who handled
orientation projects rather than
operations projects.

Langelle handled CIA
communications in Moscow. The
CIA used State Department
channels of communication, but
could code messages by means of
one-pad encrypting so that
the message was secret until
it was forwarded to CIA head-
quarters, where it was decoded.
In 1959 the Soviets declared
Langelle persona non grata as
a result of his involvement with
P.S. Popov. Langelle was the
case officer of Popoo, who worked
for the GRU, Soviet military
intelligence. While making a
contact with Popov, Langelle
was detained by the KGB
and was questioned for two
and a half hours. The KGB
attempted to recruit him, and
then released him. The State
SECRET
11112576
4
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
Department filed a formal protest,
but Langelle was told to leave
the Soviet Union within three
days. He left the Soviet Union
in early October 1959.

Langelle first became aware
of Lee Harvey Oswald when he
heard in a conversation that
a Marine had contacted the
American consular office in
Moscow to renounce his citizenship.
He later heard that this individual
had changed his mind and was
returning to the United States.
He does not recall the details
of these conversations, but he
believes they took place in the
United States.
11112577
Langelle characterized Oswald's
defection as a consular case to
be handled by consular officers,
rather than an intelligence case
involving intelligence officers,
who were shorthanded in Moscow
at that time. He stated that
the few intelligence officers in
Moscow at that time were
involved in specific operations,
and did not perform general
intelligence functions. He also
stated that intelligence officers
at the Embassy did not use
the consular officers for intelligence
purposes, and that there were

5

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET
no CIA people in the consular
section.

Sangelle stated that the
military intelligence people at the
Embassy probably would have been
contacted about Oswald's defection.
The military intelligence personnel
included Leo Dulacki (Marines),
Paul Adams (Navy), John
Munson (Navy) and Ted Hoffman
(Army). He did not know
whether Alexis Davison (Navy)
was an intelligence officer or
whether Davison was involved
in the Penkovsky case.

Langelle stated that when
Oswald left the Soviet Union
he was the responsibility of the
State Department, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, and
the FBI.
11112578
When Langelle left
Moscow in 1959, Winters was
the senior CIA officer there
Mahoney and Leberman were still
there, and Washenko may still
have been there. Sangelle's
replacement as Embassy Security
Officer was John Abidian, who
was not with the CIA. Abidián
was later replaced by Hugh
Montgomery, who was Winter's
successor as senior CIA officer.
SECRET
6
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Montgomery was later replaced by
Paul Garbler, who became the
first officially designated Chief
of Station in Moscow. Other
CIA officers in Moscow circa
1962 included Rodney Carlson,
Bill Horbaly, and possibly John
D. Hemene

At Headquarters the chief
of the Soviet Russia Division
was John Maury, followed by
Howard Osborne and then
David E. Murphy.

With regard to American
journalists in Moscow, Langelle
had no contacts with R. G.
Korengold or Alice Mosby,
did not know A. D. Goldberg,
and was contacted by Priscilla
Johnson for an interview after
he was declared persona non
grata.
SECRET 11112579
When Langelle returned to the
United States, he continued working
for the State Department. He resumed
his CIA duties on a part-time basis
in 1961. He dealt with communications
between Washington and Moscow.
In September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties
on a full-time basis at headquarters. He
worked mainly in the Soviet Russia
Division, External Operations, Africa and
Europe. At present he is still with the
CIA and still paid by the State
Department, but he plans to retire soon.

SECRET

Sangelle
L'ergetic was born on October 7,1922
quis social security number is 495-18-8808.
qte is married, with three children

L'agolle
joined the CIR in Septembe, 1950,
and worked mainly in the soviet
Ritsias Division - In November 1955 he
resigned from the Agency on the pretext
that he was disgruntled with his
assignments His CIA Ribed to
have reflected this termination of employment
The only document to the contrary would
have been a memorandum from the
Director of Central Intelligence allan
Dulles, stating that siangali would
retain all rights and benefits when fc...
would

(Tits Sexsment at present
at presents this docuan
probably returned to the approximately
personnel
fila)
fifteen people knew that he was
o
still with the CIA after his resignation
in 1955. These included John Maury
(SE), foe Bulik (SRA), Quentin
Johnson (Chieff of Operations), George
Risevalper (sp), Frank Levy, Ted
Polling, fack Windschis June
Ed Galloway, Leonard
Me Coy (Reports and Requirements),
Pierre de silara (COS), and
someone at the State Departments
Sworbuck,
office of Security SECRET 11112580
Lange at the time of his
resignation Lotte applied for
Fangplle
15472& reaployment with the Date Department.

SECRET
Langelle handled CIA communications
in Moscow. The CIA used State
Department channels of communication,
but code could code messages by means
of one-pad encrypting so that the
message was secret until it was
forwarded to CIA Headquarters for
decoding

11112581
SECRET

2
delibviately tough on CIA personnel for
security breaches in order to so build
his cover as a non-cin foreign service officer
His salary was paid by the State Diepartment SECRE
Be the interim he worked at the Wecht
Company. In March 1956 he began
started to work at the State Department
as a Security Officer was for the
Wienna in September 1956
1956 de was sent to Vienna where he
earned
reputation fortarbering was
at the Embassy
strict Security Officer, The CIR
Chief of Station and the in Vienna and
the ambassador knew he was with
the CIA ate served as the Searity.
Par Langelle served as the security
officer at the Moscow Embassy from
December 1957 to September 1959.
In addition, he was the senior CIA.
officer there, with five or six
CIA officers working inside the Embassy.
and approximately four outside.
(Ecor. Officer);
Inside
[insert]

Inside se George P. Winters
Venables, and
Maloney,
Steve Vashenko (Econ, or Agric. Officer).
Outside vere Joan Seberman deo teacher.
at the American school) and three or
four students, who handled orientation
projects raldes thap operations projects-
SECRET
11112582
In 1959 on the Soviets declared
L'Angeli persona non grata as a result.
of his involvement with P.S. Popov.
L'ange li ewaя The case officer for Popov,
who worked for that GRU,
Soviet military intelligence. Langeti
Sangalla ad been contacting While
3
SECRET
making a contact with Popov,
Sangelle was detained by the KGB
and was questioned for two and a
half hours. The RGB attempted
to recruit him, then released
Rim and The State Department
filed • formal protest, but Sangelle
was forced to bave the Soviet Unior
within three days..

Sangalle first became aware
of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard
in conversation that a former Marina
had contacted the American consular.
office in Moscow to renounce his
citizenship - He later heard that
this individual Rad changed his
mind and was returning to the
United States. He does not recall
the details of these conversationss
but he believes they took place
in the United States. 11112583

Langelle characterized Oswald's
defection as a consular case to be
handled by consular officers, rather
Than an intelligence dase whion
involving intelligence officers, who
were shorthanded in Moscow at that
time. He otatod that the few
intelligence officers in Moscow at that
SECRET time were involved in specific
operations, and did not handle perform
general intelligence functions. We
stated that Oswald, when he networked
He also stated that the intelligence officers at the
Embosay did not was the consular officers for intelligence purposes,
4
and that there were no CIA og people in
the consielar section.
SECRET
left the Soviet Union, was the
responsibility of the State Department,
the the Immigration Immigration and an Naturalization.
service, and the FBI.

When Langelle loft Moscow in 1959,
Wenters was the senior CIA officer there.
Mahoney and Leberman were still there,
and Vashenko may still have been there.
Sangelles seplacement as Embassy Security.
officer was John Abidian, who was
not with the CA. Cafidian was
latered replaced by Wughashita siccesen
Montgomery, who becomes the senior
wraced enter's successor.
or semios CIP officer. Montgomery.
was later
replaced by Paul Fortler, who became
the first officially designated Chief
of Station in Moscow. Other CIA
officers in Moscow circa 1962 included
Rodney Carlson, Bill Narbley, and
possibly John D. Nemingway

Millary intelligence personnel
Moscow indadel Adams
(Hard) Attack (Navy), tad Hoffman
(Porng

At Readquarters, the chief of the
Soviet Russia Division was John
Mawry, followed by Noward Osborne
and then David E. Murphy.
SECRET
11112584

When Longelle returned to the
United States, he continued working for the
State Department Heresumed his CIA
duties on a partitime basis in 1961. He dealt
with communications between Washington and Moscow
In September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties
full-time basis at Headquarters.
on a
He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia
División, External Operations, Africa
and Europe. He present at present
he is still with the CIA and is still
paid by the State Department, but he
plans to retire soon.
SECRET
11112585

Sangelle
Russell August Longoli
SEGRET
Genzmar
5-4-78
10-7-22
495-18-8808
M
CLA
SRD (SRA) language, operational tmel.
3 ch..
Sept 50
Nov 55 resigned from agency
word-disgruntled
intern
fot ad
Necht Co
started
Plate
memo from director
all rights & benefits.
when returns
(Dulles)
SR9-internal ops
gnos.component.
Sec. Off-Cover building.
cos new.
Vienna
Grafed
status & amforally
Moscow-Dec-57
sept.59
15 knew people all buried
not a station
first cos Paul Garbler
Mar $856
Vienna
bept.56
SE-John Moury
SRI Joe Bulick

Ch.of Ops Quentin Johnson
Garage falder (op.)
Good Kinoky
Frank Levy
Ted Polling
Jack Lindscri
June Sworbuck
Ed Galloway
Reporto & Requirements.
Leonard Me loy
Cos
Prezze de Silve
DOS Office of Security
Moscow
11112586
tepba not aware
5 to 6 officers inside
4. outside
SECRET

Jangelle
Kongesti
SECTET

inside هWenters, Mahoneg Venaftes
Hove Washenko (Econ. Officer)
outside Glan feberman teacher
Georg P.
Genzman
5-4-78
Abidian
replaced
by Hugh
Montgonerle
(integratool
Aquar
officer
3 or 4 istudents - orientation
rather than operations
John Abidian (State dec. Officer
took over late
responsibilities)
CIA George P. Winters
SO
ECON Otficer

-Econ.Off..
agric Off
Waskenbo - maybe still there
Mahoney & Seberna
agency operation.
penetration on Rtl-mul-intele
Pyta popov. agent
Png -

PNG
is
was case off.
16

case compromised
got approval from Khrush
to kidnap -
stepped
Tried to recruit
released after 2½ hrs.
as far as
off bers
11112587
said they would get in touch
state protested
PNG
Back to les esorbed for state fan 60
handled State Dept dutées
+ agency functiona
SECRET
Reamed CIA parttime 6, ap
communications to mos
J Lept. 61 HQ & full time bases.

Sangelle
L' Angele
SECRET

Gonzman
5-4-28
(Penkousky)
wife
cut-out-Brit.
529 Sept.61-062
moved back to GIA
on full-time basis Iget 61
(Deten 58-beft.59)
و
Mahony GSA officer
Communicat
Mow to HQ.
SR9 Jack Maury

Communicat
CHO,

Winters remained

in conversations a consular officer said Marine
renounced citysenckip

walk-ins
consular off. would bring it to your attention

Beorge Wieswalper - in Basbin, handled Popov while
in E. Berint. Urenna.
handled Ponkosky
maybe Rosenko.

Used Slate communication
one pad encrypting
11112588
SECRET
Sangelle
f'Angele

SECRET
Gerizmian
5-4-28
A people ips consular sections.
mil intell Pauls Adam's Nav.

Ted Hoffman am
Munion Md Nav.

Dulački Mar.

would have been contacted

Korengold-no contacts
Johnson-aoked for interview after his PNG
Mosby no contacts
Goldberg-didn't know

Davison-docan't know if agency.
not involved in Penk to his knowledge.
dip. personnel could not be used for intel. without
prios approved from State..
Provocationò

9 Harmotone

Naval aviator

Atsugi-53-55
SECRET
11112589
Sangelle
Angeli
SEGRET

Gonzman
5-4-78

62 Hugh Montgomery (senior)
John Do demingway (?)
Garbler (cos; replaced Montgomery)
Paul
Rodney Carlson
Bill Harbley
No comma sõivce register with mil. & Moscow

63-SR, Chief of External Ops.
africa + Cur
Still paid by State (FSR 4 in Moscow)
*
David E. Murphy Chief of SR Dist. A 64-65
cos in Berlin during
then Maury
Popov operation while
L'a in Moscow
follbroed by Howard Osborne
Murphy
11112530
SECRET
☆
SEGRET
He believed that the military intelligence
pegele at the Embassy would have been
contacted abouts Cowald's defection.
The military intelligence personnel
included and dam (Mary),
on
Dulacki (Marines), Paul
Munson
adams (Navy),
(Navy) and Ted Hoffman (Army).
Jangelle did not know whethale whethalexis Davison (Navy)
intelligence officers the Penkowsky
whether he was in
in
case, whether
With regard to American
journalists in Moscow, Langelle
had no
a.I. Gold
contacts with R. G. Korengold
or alive Mosby, did not know
Goldberg, and was contacted
by Priscilla Johnson after his
expulsion for an interview after.
declared persona non
he was
grata.
11112591
SECRET

SECRET

res.61 Eugene
Winters
Mahoney - Rt. I Bebe
Eugene Mahoney
30-61- 1114
(17908.62
177662-
356-4650
cos
Springs Wik
1503) Snug
Garbler-Vienne Hillet 22180
Osborne me fean
2005.63 Montgomery-

first. COS 2 cgure 62-1990, 62 Rodney Caklion
11 Jul 63, 31 ang 65 Edward Gotchef HQ
annual Cave til May
22
11 Dan 63, 18 Jan. 66 Jerzy Poran Ha 29.m.
C/SR
John Maury
1 Dec 54-29Jul. 62
HQ
Mars 12
3704 Farr ave,
Fairfax
Howard J. Osborne
30 Jul 62 15 Sept.63 alty John Debalus
948-6727
David C. Murphy
1537 Forest
16 Sept 63-10 Villa Sane, Metean
68
355-9523
SECRET
11112592
