180-10145-10239
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
15073
F4
#10
SURELL BRADY
3/7/78

KOSTIKOV, VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH
201-305052
3 VOLS.
THIS COPY IS NOT
VOL.1-1959-1962
FOR RELEASE./
11110762
[some type & prose on [intercept]]

15 Oct 1962

MO asfs NEFYEDOV for either SARMASHER
or KOSTIKOV, neither &
them is NEF
asks uho is sparing VSEMOCHKIN/PR./. MO
says that NEF doesn't frow him. "We are
passing through mexico. NEF told MO to
fold tre lure. GARM takes phore. Morepent
tis name-VSEMOCHIKIN. MO says that KOSTI-
kov promised to come over, Kostiκον tapes
phore. No csipa KOST if te urei come and
get" us. KOST docer't have ar auto avail-
able right now, KOST says that everything
opers at 1000. Mo say we urii be
waiting for KOST. / Apparently Mo and
oters are going to Habara./ MO asks if
KOST could get 500 dollars that "we"
have spert or the trip. Kost wei see about
it."

DOB 3/17/33 MUSCOW
EMPLOYEE, SOV. EMB., MEXICO CITY, DOI JUNE 1961

180-10145-10239

KOSTIKOV
VOL. II
JAN. 63- DEC. 64
11110763

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSSREFERENCE

15 SEP 64
FBI
The file of this bureau do not contain any
ifo to fully support statement in par five
if your proposed draft to effect that subj
believed to work for Dept Hirter & fia
Chief Directorate & Comm for State secu
rity & KGB/

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
4 DEC 1963
... coverage. Kostipου αγα ayerieu thú
30 noi roi cate no particular deiration
of their mode activities, no travee out-
orde prox.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
23 Nov 1963

at 1250 hrs on 22 nor cubar Consul
Alfredo mirabel Diaz asped to speak w/
suspect KGB Pavel antorovice yats for.
Latter apparently unavailable ard

SECRET
1111076-4

Kostifor cane on live wix foi con-
versation ensuing in familiar form "ti
Kos: Forgive me for arriving lat
mir: Did you recover the suitcase?
Kos: yes
Smer: Her it was arriving or the
offer trip?
Kos: yes
mir: I calleα το των you the for-
rowing, Hatregarding that matter that
we tad talked about, to see if we
would spera furday in Chapultepec
Pard be cause my wife is preparing
sone food to eat Here.

Ros: I'm sorry but d've just made
plass for arorrer trip and dim leaving
His very day. So please forguic ne for
vor being able to go wear you. Catthis
point Kostisor in error cadressed
mirábal فه agove; ard mir covects
Les.....)

Kosi Have you already talked w/ Nechiporerros?

miri d'a site to talk wy Pover yat-
spor

Kas: Wiit a minute, te se core row,
mir: If ter busy. I've care teór
later, but d're be available for the raft
BRET

11110765
Tay Thay to four at Jel 20, 11 28 47
Ros: OR

SECRET
11110766
4/13/18

Aspatch
19/5/63
20: Chief, WH Quitior
hom: Chief & Station, mexico City
Subj: TOPFLOOR [BER] 