180-10131-10325
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 10/19/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10131-10325
RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 014725

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: TOVAR, BERNARD HUGH
TO: 
TITLE: DEPOSITION OF BERNARD HUGH TOVAR..

DATE: 06/29/1978
PAGES: 48
SUBJECTS: CIA, METHODOLOGY
TOVAR, BERNARD HUGH, TESTIMONY BEFORE THE 
COMMITTEE
OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD ), DEFECTION TO RUSSIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/26/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: 
COMMENTS: Box 5

v9.1
NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 1

1
2 TESTIMONY OF: PAGE
3 Bernard Hugh Tovar 2
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 2
TOP SECRET

AFRANCE: msl

1
ASSASSINATION OF JOHN F. KENNEDY
2
3 Thursday, June 29, 1978
4
5 U. S. House of Representatives,
6 John F. Kennedy Subcommittee of
7 Select Committee on Assassinations,
8 Washington, D. C.
9 Deposition of:
10 BERNARD HUGH TOVAR
11 called for examination by staff counsel for the subcommittee,
12 pursuant to notice, in the offices of House Annex II, Room 3370,
13 Second and D. Streets, Southwest, Washington, D. C., beginning at
14 2:00 o'clock p.m., before Albert Joseph LaFrance, a Notary Public
15 in and for the District of Columbia, when were present on behalf
16 of the respective parties:
17 For the Subcommittee:
18 MICHAEL GOLDSMITH, ESQ. Staff Counsel
19 ELIZABETH WOLF
20 For the Deponent:
21 (There was representation by counsel)
22
23
24
25

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 3
TOP SECRET

2 TESTIMONY OF HUGH TOVAR
2 Mr. Goldsmith. State your name for the record.
3 Mr. Tovar. I sign my name B. Hugh. My full name is
4 Bernard Hugh Tovar.
5 Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Tovar, my name is Michael Goldsmith,
6 Senator Staff Counsel of the Select Committee on Assassinations.
7 I have been designated by the Committee to take your deposition
8 today. You are here voluntarily today?
9 Mr. Tovar. Yes.
10 Mr. Goldsmith. You have the right to have counsel present.
11 Do you waive that right?
12 Mr. Tovar. Yes.
13 Mr. Goldsmith. Have you read a copy of the Committee's
14 supporting resolution?
15 Mr. Tovar. Yes.
16 Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had a chance to read Rule Number
17 4?
18 Mr. Tovar. I have.
19 Mr. Goldsmith. The Committee rules provide for the tran-
20 script of a deposition to be made available to a witness and
21 actually be delivered for detention by any witness that gives
22 the Committee a statement. However, by virtue of the arrange-
23 ment that the Committee has worked out with the CIA, the Agency
24 has asked us to request Agency employees testifying before us
25 to waive the right actually to receive a copy of the transcript.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 4

1 3
2 The reason for that is because the transcript frequently
3 will contain classified information and the Agency prefers for
4 that information to be kept in our secure area here. So I
5 would like to ask you to waive your right to receive a copy of
6 your statement but in so doing, I want to assure you that you
7 will be given a right to review the transcript for accuracy,
8 o make comment upon it and if necessary, to give an additional
9 statement.
10 Mr. Tovar. I agree.
11 Mr. Goldsmith. I would like to inform you that the court
12 reporter will provide you with a transcript and the transcript
13 will be certified by the reporter as a complete, accurate and
14 true record of all the testimony that you give here today.
15 Now, you are employed by the CIA, is that correct?
16 Mr. Tovar. Yes.
17 Mr. Goldsmith. I had given you earlier a copy of a letter
18 dated 23 March 1978 from Mr. Carlucci to the Chairman of this
19 Committee. Have you had a chance to read that letter?
20 Mr. Tovar. I have.
21 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you understand it?
22 Mr. Tovar. I understand it.
23 Mr. Goldsmith. Then I think we are ready to proceed to
24 the substance of the questioning. What is your present position
25 with the CIA?
NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 5
TOP SECRET

4
1 Staff of the Directorate of Operations.
2 Mr. Goldsmith. How long have you been working in that
3 capacity?
4 Mr. Tovar. Ever since a year ago April.
5 Mr. Goldsmith. How long have you been working with the
6 Agency?
7 Mr. Tovar. Thirty years.
8 Mr. Goldsmith. What was your assignment prior to becom-
9 ing Chief of the CI Staff?
10 Mr. Tovar. I was recently returned from overseas where I
11 was Station Chief in Bangkok and three years before that,
12 Chief of the Station in Laos.
13 Mr. Goldsmith. Prior to assuming your position as Chief
14 of the CI Staff had you had extensive experience in the area of
15 counterintelligence?
16 Mr. Tovar. No, not particularly. We don't as a rule
17 specialize. We are normally generalists. I do not consider
18 myself a counterintelligence expert.
19 Mr. Goldsmith. During the years 1959 to '63 what position
20 did you occupy with the Agency?
21 Mr. Tovar. In 1959 I was Chief of Station in Kuala
22 Lumpur in Malaysia.
23 In 1920, I came back and I was originally Deputy Chief and
24 then Chief of the Branch in Far East Division which controls
25 operations in the Phillipines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia,

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 6
TOP SECRET

1 5
2 New Zealand, and Oceania. That was until 1964.
3 Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had a chance to review CIA
4 document number 1817 and the pages that follow it?
5 Mr. Tovar. Yes, I have read these. I had not read these.
6 They were released by one of my subordinates, Mr. Friedlander.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Are you telling us that today is the first
8 chance you had to read them?
9 Mr. Tovar. I did not read them this time. They went to
10 you, to the Committee but I have since read them.
11 Mr. Goldsmith. They were prepared by whom?
12 Mr. Tovar. Jack Friedlander, Chief of Operations. They
13 were signed by him, not prepared by him. They would have been
14 originated probably by Mr. Kowalski or Mr. Bradley, I am not
15 sure which. I think Kowalski almost certainly.
16 Mr. Goldsmith. The memorandum which is labeled CIA No.
17 1817 was a response by the Agency to an inquiry by the
18 Committee as to whether it was standard operating procedure for
19 the Agency to debrief what in effect were repatriated defectors.
20 I believe it is fair to say by way of summary that the memo
21 says that it was not in fact standard operating procedure
22 during the years 1959 to '63 to debrief such individuals. Is
23 that correct?
24 Mr. Tovar. Insofar as I understand it. My knowledge is
25 limited to what I see here before me in the paper. During this

NW-48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 7
TOP SECRET

6
1 the current policy was then.
2 What I have been told since by those who should know is
3 that there was no policy as set forth here.
4 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what the criteria were for
5 selecting the 117 individuals whose files were reviewed?
6 Mr. Tovar. No. I think someone mentioned the other day
7 that the names were incorporated in a memorandum I think ori-
8 ginionally by the FBI but I would not certify to that.
9 Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Tovar, since you have no direct
10 knowledge as to the manner in which this memo was prepared and,
11 for example, you don't know the criteria that was used for
12 choosing these 117 people, I am not going to ask you questions
13 pertaining to that document. I would like to request that you
14 communicate with the Office of Legislative Counsel at the
15 Agency and tell them the individual who was involved in the
16 actual direct preparation of the document so that I could spend
17 some time with him.
18 Mr. Tovar. The document, of course, is over my signature,
19 so I stand behind the document. I am responsible for what
20 was said there. If it is incorrect then I am incorrect in
21 leeting that document out. I have no personal first hand know-
22 ledge of the research he did to arrive at the conclusion here
23 which he presented to me and I endorsed. I am prepared to stand
24 behind it but I will give you his name.
25 Mr. Goldsmith. I want to ask you some questions about the

NW 48331 DocId:32277210 Page 8
TOP SECRET

7
1 document. CIA no. 1818 indicates that CI Staff has completed a
2 review of the files of 117 US persons who had "defected" to
3 the USSR between 1959 and 63 and since returned to the United
4 States. Is that correct? '58 to '63?
5 Mr. Tovar. Yes.
6 Mr. Goldsmith. I would like you to review the statement
7 under the name Thomas Morrdian. M-O-R-R-I-D-I-A-N. While you
8 read that paragraph, I wil.. state for the record that the way
9 the memo is set forth it indicates that it was not standard
10 operating procedure to debrief such individuals, that of 117
11 people whose files were reviewed only ten were debriefed.
12 Then it proceeds to list the ten individuals who in fact were
13 debriefed.
14 I have now requested Mr. Tovar to read the first summary
15 which is right next to the name of the first person who was
16 debriefed.
17 Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.
18 Mr. Goldsmith. When did that individual defect?
19 Mr. Tovar. 1947 is the year he went to the USSR. I
20 assume that is the year he defected, if that is the term.
21 Mr. Goldsmith. So that in fact that individual was not
22 someone who defected between 1958 and 1963?
23 Mr. Tovar. That is correct.
24 Mr. Goldsmith. Let us look at the next individual under
25 B, Joseph Marshall.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 9
TOP SECRET

8
1 Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.
2 Mr. Goldsmith. When did Mr. Marshall defect?
3 Mr. Tovar. It is not clear. He was born in the US in
4 1897. He said he was employed in Hawaii in 1921. There is no
5 indication whence he went to the USSR.
6 Mr. Goldsmith. There is no indication he defected between
7 '58 and '63?
8 Mr. Tovar. No. He was arrested by the Soviets in 1945.
9 Conceivably he might have defected after that.
10 Mr. Goldsmith. The letter "C", Tommaro S-G-O-V-I-O.
11 Would you please read that section and tell us when this indi-
12 vidual defected?
13 Mr. Tovar. Again, he went to the USSR with his parents
14 in the 1930s. No indication when he defected. He left the
15 USSR in 1960. No way of telling.
16 Mr. Goldsmith. This individual did not defect between
17 58 and '63?
18 Mr. Tovar. At last we have no indication he did. One
19 would assume to the contrary.
20 Mr. Goldsmith. Letter "D", Mary Mackler, will you please
21 read the first summary and tell us when she defected?
22 Mr. Tovar. There is no indication when she defected.
23 She went to the USSR with her parents in 1931. Sometime after,
24 married a Soviet.
25 Mr. Goldsmith. Again, no indication she defected between

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 10 TOP SECRET

9
1 '58 and '63?
2 Mr. Tovar. No.
3 Mr. Goldsmith. Would you look at letter "E". Sonia and
4 Fred A-S-I-N-I-A-N. When did they defect?
5 Mr. Tovar. They renounced their US citizenship in 1948.
6 So I assume that is the operative year.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Will you look at the letter "F" now?
8 Mr. Tovar. Jack Kuralski.
9 Mr. Goldsmith. When did he defect?
10 Mr. Tovar. He recounced his US citizenship in '34 and
11 departed USSR I assume in 1934.
12 Mr. Goldsmith. The point I am trying to make is that the
13 memo responding to the Committee's inquiry makes reference to
14 ten individuals who defected between the years '58 and '63.
15 It then proceed to provide us with ten names. But in fact,
16 if we continue to look through the list we will see that seven
17 of the ten individuals did not defect during that time period.
18 Some of them did return during that time period.
19 Mr. Tovar. And were debriefed.
20 Mr. Goldsmith. And were debriefed.
21 Mr. Tovar. Contacted.
22 Mr. Goldsmith. Of the ten, perhaps three or four returned
23 during the relevant time period. I asked those questions
24 mainly to draw your attention to the fact that the response
25 given was not really --

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 11
TOP SECRET

10
1 Mr. Tovar. -- precisely what you wanted?
2 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.
3 Mr. Tovar. I don't know the answer to that. I would
4 assume that the criteria they applied here as best they could
5 was when did he defect, when did he return, was he debriefed
6 or contacted? In some cases they hit one out of three, in
7 other cases two out of three. I think they were giving the
8 best correlation with your criteria that they could.
9 Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that. My point might be then
10 that the introductory section should not have stated that these
11 were people in 1958 and '63 when in fact they were not.
12 Mr. Tovar. You are right. That is an incorrect statement.
13 Is your requesting memo here? That is not a very good state-
14 ment.
15 Mr. Goldsmith. Here is the letter dated April 6, 1978
16 which I show you just for your information to show you what the
17 Committee was requesting from the Agency. If you will look
18 under number two.
19 Mr. Tovar. Then this would appear to correlate with that.
20 You asked to indicate whether the AGency from '58 to '63
21 interviewed or debriefed former American defectors. So, the
22 time they defected is not the operative consideration.
23 Mr. Goldsmith. No, it was not.
24 Mr. Tovar. The time of the debriefing --
25 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, that would be the focus.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 12
TOP SECRET

11
1 Mr. Tovar. So these would be at least consistent with that.
2 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, that is true. I would like also for
3 purposes of further clarification, to have you read the letter
4 dated May 12, 1978 starting with the second full paragraph.
5 It is not numbered.
6 Mr. Tovar. Yes.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. I show you that only for your background
8 purposes, not to ask you any questions about it. In any event,
9 I would appreciate having the name of the individual who
10 prepared the memo passed along to the Office of the Legislative
11 Counsel.
12 Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.
13 Mr. Goldsmith. The response that was provided to the
14 Committee indicates that the CIA had no standard precedure for
15 debriefing returning US delectors. What was the basis for that
16 policy or actually for the absence of the policy?
17 Mr. Tovar. I don't know. I can speculate only -- not
18 having been there and not having any involvement -- I don't
19 know what mentality of those in charge was at that time.
20 Mr. Goldsmith. What would your specilation be?
21 Mr. Tovar. I would speculate that the contact with and
22 debriefing, in effect the supervision of Americans in that
23 category would be FBI's prerogative and the Agency as a rule
24 would not have had any basic interest or reason to be involved
25 unless there were a specific counterintelligence concern.

NW 48331 DocId:32277210 Page 13
TOP SECRET

12
1 Mr. Goldsmith. Does the Agency today have a policy of,
2 as a matter of routine operating procedure, debriefing return-
3 ing defectors?
4 Mr. Tovar. None that I am aware of.
5 Mr. Goldsmith. Again would you say you relied on the
6 FBI to conduct those interviews?
7 Mr. Tovar. Yes.
8 Mr. Goldsmith. Is there any coordination between the
9 Agency and the FBI so that the Bureau is informed when someone
10 in fact is returning?
11 Mr. Tovar. On American defectors, the type you are speak-
12 ing of here?
13 Mr. Goldsmith. An American defector who is repatriated.
14 Mr. Tovar. I know of no case where they would be
15 interested in the subject. I can't say there is a procedure
16 in being. Knowing the way we relate to the FBI, if we knew of
17 a case of returning Americans, Say we learned it from an
18 overseas station and it seemed of interest, we would probably
19 refer it directly to the FBI by letter.
20 I am speculating here because I know of no case in point.
21 Mr. Goldsmith. There is no standard procedure for contact
22 ingthe Bureau and informing them of a returning defector?
23 Mr. Tovar. Not that I am aware of.
24 Mr. Goldsmith. You would be the person who would be aware
25 of such a procedure?

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 14
TOP SECRET

13
1 Mr. Tovar. Berween the Soviet-East European Division and
2 CI Staff we should be aware of it. The two were most primarily
3 concerned with the USSR. I think one or the other of us would
4 inform the Bureau. This is not our primary concern: The
5 Americans, even when they have been naughty boys, having gone
6 to USSR and decided to return, we still don't have necessarily
7 a professional interest in that type of person.
8 Mr. Goldsmith. What is the responsibility of the CI Staff
9 within the CIA?
10 Mr. Tovar. In a couple of sentences it is a little
11 difficult. I will tell you what we do. The CI Staff has two
12 principal areas of activity. We are first of all a staff.
13 Are you familiar with the staff as opposed to the division?.
14 Mr. Goldsmith. No, I am not.
15 Mr. Tovar. You have seen the table of organization of
16 DDO?
17 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.
18 Mr. Tovar. You know generally how we are organized?
19 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.
20 Mr. Tovar. The main set of components of the Directorate
21 is divisions and staffs. The divisions operate a function overt
22 seas. We are staff and that is in the military sense we support
23 the Directorat and we support the Director, we support one
24 another in an advisory capacity and in various ways. So, we
25 are not an operating component. We don't run spies. We have

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 15
TOP SECRET

14
1 a lot of activities which impact on operations but we are not in
2 the true sense of the term an operating element.
3 So, having said that, the primary field of activity for
4 the CI Staff is research and analysis, and then the other,
5 what we refer to as operations coordination. Now, that is sort
6 of the term which does not -- research and analysis is clear.
7 We examine and analyze cases, essentially cases. We are not
8 scrutinizing people. We are looking at intelligence operations
9 old and current, primarily things that are not terribly
10 current. We don't tend to follow current operations in the
11 analytic sense. We take od cases and look them over to see
12 if mistakes were made, to see if we can derive lesssons from
13 mistakes made in the past. We publish papers for the Agency's
14 community at large, all in the R&A field.
15 On the other side we function in the sense of a true staff.
16 We keep our fingers on the activity of the Directorate overseas.
17 We monitor what they are doing, not in the sense of being
18 spooky but we simply read the correspondence. We are given
19 normal distribution of most: correspondence coming back from
20 overseas. We keep a hand on the pulse of counterintelligence
21 activities abroad.
22 To do this, we obviously have to have reasonable currency
23 on operational activity across the board. So, we are generally
24 aware of the operational patterns of activity that prevail in
25 various overseas stations. On that basis we are in a position

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 16 TOP SECRET

15
1 to advise the DDO or Directorate as to the level of performance,
2 the kind of activity conducted, the quality, the proper or
3 improper degree of emphasis. We maintain an overview on behalf
4 of DDO.
5 Mr. Goldsmith. Is your concentration oriented towards
6 counterintelligence threats of a foreign nature?
7 Mr. Tovar. Yes, totally.
8 Mr. Goldsmith. You would not be concerned at all with
9 counterintelligence threats domestically?
10 Mr. Tovar. None whatsoever.
11 Mr. Goldsmith. Is it correct to say that would be the
12 responsibility of the Bureau?
13 Mr. Tovar. Absolutely.
14 Mr. Goldsmith. Now, Lee Harvey Oswald returned from the
15 Soviet Union in 1962. While in the Sovietion Union he worked
16 as a worker in a radio factory. Upon his return I imagine there
17 was someone concerned about his being a counterintelligence
18 threat. Is it fair to say, and I do not want to ask you leading
19 questions but would it be fair to say that would be more
20 the responsibility of the Bureau rather than the Agency upon
21 his actual return?
22 Mr. Tovar. Yes, the question whether or not he was, let
23 us say, a counterintelligence threat.
24 Mr. Goldsmith. KGB agent?
25 Mr. Tovar. That would be a Bureau concern, no question

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 17
TOP SECRET

16
1 about that.
2 Mr. Goldsmith. However, would the Agency make any effort
3 to interview Osald while Oswald was entroute from the Soviet
4 Union to the United States?
5 Mr. Tovar. You are speaking of what the Agency might have
6 done in '63 or '62?
7 Mr. Goldsmith. '62.
8 Mr. Tovar. Again, we are speculating concerning the
9 intelligence of the men who were in charge then. Today I
10 would like to think we would be interested in what he is doing.
11 At the time I don't know. I would think, why not. On the
12 other hand, I couldn't say they would or should be interested.
13 It was not their primary precise prerogative. I think if they
14 could, as I assume they did, the Bureau would discharge its
15 responsibilities vis-a-vis any American of questionable
16 propensity, I should think they would be deferring to the
17 Bureau.
18 Mr. Goldsmith. That would be the aspect of Oswald where
19 there was a concern taht he posed a counterintelligence threat.
20 What about the fact that Oswald may have had positive intelli-
21 gence information that would have been helpful to the Agency?
22 That would not be within the jurisdiction of the Bureau?
23 Mr. Tovar. I think in that context it might have been
24 appropriate for the Agency, if the assumed the point you made,
25 to seek an interview with him. I think the appropriate

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 18 TOP SECRET

17
1 vehicle for that would have been the Domestic Contact Division
2 which I think handled most of the contacts referred to in this
3 memorandum.
4 Mr. Goldsmith. What is the function of the Domestic
5 Contact Division?
6 Mr. Tovar. They are responsible for intelligence that
7 can be checked properly and legally in the United States
8 normally through American businessmen or American persons and
9 nonofficials who travel abroad and acquire intelligence of
10 interest. This is not just USSR. It could be any other
11 country. Their primary field of activity is to contact and
12 debrief on a voluntary basis, if they so choose to respond,
13 Americans who return from overseas.
14 Mr. Goldsmith. I notice that the Committee's inquiry
15 concerning the CI's policy as to returning American defectors
16 was routed to your staff, CI Staff. When the memo was prepared
17 by the CI Staff for the Committee, was it done with the thought
18 of representing the entire agency or just the CI Staff?
19 Mr. Tovar. It is difficult for us to presume to speak for
20 the entire Agency. I think on this matter we are speaking for
21 the Directorate of Operations, not for the entire Agency.
22 Mr. Goldsmith. Fine. That is really the area with which
23 I was concerned anyway, Directorate of Operations.
24 Mr. Tovar. The only other element of the Directorate of
25 Operations that would be of an interest in this type of thing,
which might be construed as having an interest in this type
NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 19
TOP SECRET

18
1 of activity, would be the SC Division. On this I think the
2 CI staff could be considered as speaking for the Directorate.
3 Mr. Goldsmith. Is the Domestic Contact Division part of
4 the CI Staff?
5 Mr. Tovar. No, part of the Directorate of Operations.
6 Mr. Goldsmith. The response of the Agency dated April
7 20, 1978, which appears in CIA Number 1818, indicates that
8 contact seems to be based on opportunity and circumstance.
9 Then it goes on to say only ten of the 117 persons have had
10 any contact with CIA. Would it be possible for you to go into
11 more dtail on what is meant by opportunity and circumstance?
12 Mr. Tovar. In the asecne of a policy, of a guideline, a
13 procedure, internal instruction which says you will debrief
14 Americans who return from having resided in the USSR, in the
15 absence of that, this thing is left to chance obviously. I
16 cannot explain to you how the names of these 11 passed the desk
17 of whoever was in charge at the time, but assuming they did,
18 my guess, and it is really only a guess, would be that the
19 person who read that, whatever document it was, would say,
20 "Hmmph! He looks like he might be interesting", and perhaps
21 would then get in contact with CCD and suggest if they get in
22 contact with a person, let us say he is known to be living in
23 New York, suggest that they might want to seek out his location
24 and if possible interview him.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 20
TOP SECRET

19
1 I think it would be a matter of chance in the sense that
2 the analyst or whoever it was who reviewed that document, might
3 react, and yet he or she might not, too, depending on how they
4 woke up that morning. Its sheer whimsy.
5 Mr. Goldsmith. Let me explain to you why the question
6 whether or not it was standard operating procedure to debrief
7 returning defectors is important to the Committee. Since
8 the assassination of the President, there has arisen a group of
9 researchers who have reviewed the Warren Commission Report and
10 have reviewed releases made under the Freedom of Information
11 Act by the CIA and the FBI.
12 Having reviewed these materials the argument has been made
13 that Oswald received unusual treatment at the hands of the CIA.
14 One example of this unusual treatment is that there is no
15 record of Oswald having been debriefed by the CIA upon his
16 return. For that reason, we are focusing on this issue. Is
17 there any way you can give us guidance on how to respond to
18 that question?
19 Mr. Tovar. I can't becuase I am sphculating every step
20 along the way. I would hesitate to say more than Oswald
21 simply didn't connect with whoever happened to be looking --
22 let us assume his name appeared. Was his namde in the list?
23 Mr. Goldsmith. No. That is the list of people who were
24 debriefed.
25 Mr. Tovar. One hundred seventeen?
NW 48331 DocId:32277210 Page 21
TOP SECRET

20
1 Mr. Goldsmith. I haven't seen the list of 117 people.
2 Mr. Tovar. What is this?
3 Mr. Goldsmith. That is a list of 350 odd people I was
4 going to ask you about. However, since you don't have knowledge
5 of the 117, I am not going to ask you about them.
6 Mr. Tovar. If Oswald's name was on the list, I can't
7 explain why he might not have been contacted. Maybe he didn't
8 appear attractive or interesting enough. I don't know what
9 information might have been given with these names on the list,
10 such as a memo from the FBI or State Department, whoever had
11 originated it, what they said that would have titilated the
12 analyst who might have seen it that would have elicited a
13 response on the part of the analyst who would say "Ah, let us
14 look into this further."
15 Mr. Goldsmith. In particular, a lot of focus has been
16 given to Mr. Robert Edward Webster, who appears in CIA Number
17 1820 who defected approximately the same time that Oswald did
18 and returned at approximately the same time that Oswald did and
19 who was debried by the CIA for two weeks in Virginia.
20 Mr. Tovar. I didn't know that he was. It doesn't say so
21 here.
22 Mr. Goldsmith. That does not indicate the extend of the
23 debriefing. That information was obtained independently by
24 this Committee.
25 Mr. Tovar. The name means nothing to me so I can't

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 22
TOP SECRET

21
1 enlighten you on it.
2 Mr. Goldsmith. Does the CIA have any affiliation with
3 organizations in the United States who might be responsible for
4 debriefing someone?
5 Mr. Tovar. Not that I am aware of.
6 Mr. Goldsmith. In other words, if anyone is going to be
7 debriefed it would be by the Domestic Contact Division?
8 Mr. Tovar. In the intelligence sense. In the sense of
9 elucidation of intelligence, DCD would do it. A different type
10 of inquiry, personal investigation, the Office of Security, or
11 whoever it works through, would be the one.
12 The one we are talking about, DCD is the only organization
13 I know of. I can visualize a circumstance under which operating
14 components might seek out an individual or might have in times
15 past but I can't think of a case in point in my own recollec-
16 tion. I would say, given the strictures on our operating in
1