JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 10/1/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10093-10162
RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 001304

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: MORIARTY, JACK
TO: FENTON, CLIFFORD
TITLE: PETER CARROLL GLYNN, JR.
DATE: 04/25/1977
PAGES: 14
SUBJECTS: PRO-CASTRO CUBANS
GLYNN, PETER CARROLL
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/18/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Includes letter of transmittal. Box 27.

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW 88326
Date: 2025
v9.1
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 1
1

DUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL..
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN,
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD E. FORD, TΕΝΝ.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.
(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515

MEMORANDUM 001304
TO: Clifford A. Fenton, Jr.
FROM: Jack Moriarty
RE: Peter Carroll Glynn, Jr.
DATE: April 25, 1977

Pursuant to an earlier phone contact, I interviewed Mr.
Glynn on his job at 4301 Suitland Road, Suitland, Maryland
at 2:35 p.m. Friday, April 22, 1977. Subject is employed as
an Intelligence Analyst by NOSIC (Naval Oceanic Surveillance
Information Center) 763-2258 and resides at 107 Howard
Street, Dumfries, Virginia, 221-8748.

He was serving with the U.S. Army on 11-22-63 assigned
to Fort Walters, Mineral Wells, Texas as a radio technician
and as such regularly monitered messages between Mexico and
Cuba. As a result, he overheard comments in the sphere which
were adverse to the newly assassinated President and were
upsetting to him. Although he doesn't recall the exact
dialogue, the gist concerned the humor found by the Cubans
and Mexicans appraising this murder as being done by his own
people and yet suspecting foreigners like themselves.

Consequently, it has occurred to Glynn that we may
benefit by causing a thorough check to be made of the ASA
(Army Security Agency) who Glynn believes recorded all such
messages usually in tape form-and stored same. He also
prepared dossier of which he gave me the original and one
copy.

He goes on to say their mission at Fort Walters was
labeled a training mission and, as such, was comprehensive
enough to encompass the recording of all such collateral
messages. Additionally, he recalls the Mexican sending
station used the name of "Chihuahua."
JM/rlm
NO ARMY DECLASSIFICATION ACTIVITY
OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION
REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF
DATE: 10 OCT 1788

NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 2

S T A T E M E N T
FROM: MR. PETER CARROLL GLYNN. JR.
107 HOWARD STREET
DUMFRIES, VIRGINIA 22026 TEL 703 221-8748

WORK: DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (NOSIC)
4301 SUITLAND ROAD, SUITLAND, MARYLAND. 20390 TEL 202 763-2258 OR 59

SSN: 022-30-2275
SERVICE NUMBER RA 11 396 679
TO: MR. MORIARTY INVESTIGATIVE REPRESENTATIVE
FOR ASSASSINATION COMMITTEE.
SUBJ: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY.

ENCL: (1) DD398, DD FORM 1584, AND OPNAV FORM 5510-2.
(2) SPECIAL ORDERS NO 175 OF 22 AUG 1972.
(3) DD 214.
1. ENCLOSURES 1 THROUGH 3 IS FORWARDED HEREWITH TO VALIDATE MY WHEREABOUTS BEFORE, DURING,
AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT AND POSSIBLY SAVING THE ASSASSINATIONS INVESTIGATIVE
COMMITTEE ADDITIONAL VALIDATION STEPS.
2. DURING SUBJECT INCIDENT I WAS STATIONED AT THE 330TH ASA COMPANY (A) OF THE
303RD ASA BN (CORPS) USASA, LOCATED AT FORT WALTERS, MINERAL WELLS, TEXAS.
THE COMMANDING OFFICER AT THAT TIME WAS CHARLES R. GINN, CAPT, AIS.
OUR MISSION, IF I REMEMBER CORRECTLY, WAS LABELED AS A "TRAINING MISSION".
I PERSONALLY BELIEVE THERE MAY BE A REMOTE POSSIBILITY DATA OBTAINED FROM
THIS MISSION BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT, MAY POSSIBLY BE
OF VALUE TO THE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE.
3. SUGGESTIONS:
A. I SUGGEST REPRESENTATIVES OF YOUR COMMITTEE CONTACT PERSONNEL CONCERNED,
LOCATED AT "US ARMY SECURITY AGENCY (ASA)" HEADQUARTERS, ARLINGTON HALL STATION,
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA AS TO WHAT THIS MISSION WAS, ITS DATA STORAGE LOCATION (IF ANY),
AND POSSIBLY DATA ANALYSIS EVALUATION RESULTS.
B. IF THIS DATA IS AVAILABLE I SUGGEST IT BE RESEARCHED BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER
SUBJECT INCIDENT BY YOUR INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE.
C. I ADDITIONALLY SUGGEST A SIMILAR INVESTIGATION BE CONDUCTED FOR DATA OBTAINED
AT HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLORIDA) BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT.
D. FINALLY, I SUGGEST SIMILAR INVESTIGATION(S) BE CONDUCTED FOR ANY OTHER KNOWN
SITE BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT.
4. I MUST APOLOGIZE FOR BEING EXTREMELY VAGUE IN REFERENCE TO MY WORK WITH THE
ARMY SECURITY AGENCY, BUT I BELIEVE WHAT HAS BEEN SURFACED WITHIN THIS "STATEMENT"
MAY POSSIBLY BRANCH YOUR INVESTIGATION INTO NEW AND HOPEFULLY MORE RESOURCEFUL AREAS.
IF I CAN BE OF ANY ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE, PLEASE FEEL FREE TO CONTACT ME AT
ANY TIME AT HOME OR AT WORK. I PRAY TO THE LORD THIS INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE UNVEILS
ALL NECESSARY INFORMATION AND CLOSES THIS CASE AND SIMILAR CASES AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

NO ARMY DECLASSIFICATION ACTIVITY
OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION
REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF

DATE: 10 OCT 1977.
VERY RESPEC.
22 APRIL 77
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 3

Typhiah copy (less old 398) previez
BI, submitted to Jack mar
7564151244..
STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY
INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all
answers. All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "ilone," so state. Do not misatate or omit material
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If inore space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and
attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be raaintained in confidence.

1. LAST NAME PETER Carroll Glynn Jr. STATUS
4: PERMANENT MAILING ALDRESS
107 Howard St., Dumfries, Va. 22026
2. ALIASES), NICCHAME(S), OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriago)
NONE
5. DATE OF DOMEN (Day, month, yous) PLACE DE DIRTS (City, County, Stato, and Country) PLACE CERTIFICATE PECCADED
05 March 1940 Fall River, Bristol, Mass. U.S.A. Fall River, Massachusetts.
HEIGHT WEIGHT COLOR OF EYES COLOR OF HAIH SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING HARKS
5 FT 8 IN 184 Hazel Gray Scar, left wrist, 3½ inches long
IF THE
5. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS! YES NO ARE YOU NOW OF HAVE YOU EVER DESH ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS
MARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? YES HO
ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES" EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.
ARE YOU SON OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHADHIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? YES ho

7. U. S.
CITIZEN NATIVE YES IF HATURALIZED, CERTIFICATE NO. IF DERIVED, PARENTS CERTIFICATE MI(S). DATE, PLACE, AND COURT
10
ALIEX
REGISTRATION HO MATIVE COUNTRY DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY
8.
MILITARY SERVICE
ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U. S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY YES 10 IF YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
ORGANIZATION AND STATINGH GRADE AND SERVICE H
ARE YOON PRESENTLY A MENSER OF A U. S. RESERVE OR MATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION! YES PRO SERVICE AND COMPONENT IF YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GPADE AND SERVICE NO.
SERVICE AND COMPONENT
ORGANIZATICH AND STATION OR UNIT ANO LOCATION
DO YOU INTEНО ТО ЗЕСОМ
A J. S. CITIZEN YES DATE CUPRENT ACTIVE
SERVICE STARTED
HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY, DRAWING FULL PAY, FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUS! VES
IF YES" COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
COUNTR! SERVICE COMPONENT FRON (Date) TO (Date) TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIC S-GRADE AND SERVICE NO
11. NAC N/C N/C
SUBCATION, (Account for all civilian schools and militarcacademiaa. Do not include service schoon)
MONTH AND YEAR
15-
HAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL
GRADUATE
135
1.0
DEGREE NO
N/C N/C

23 December 1943
Hubbard, Texas.

14 January 1938

19. List in order divan, parents, spouse, guardians, stapparants, foster parenta, parenta-in-law, former spouse(s) (if diverted live date
and place), children, brothers and sisters, aven though doceaned. Include any others you resided with or with whom a clos relationship
existed or asian. 11 the person is not a U. S. citizen by birth, give date and port of entry, alien registration number, naturalization certiñcals
number and place of issuanc.)

FAYNER RELATION AND NAME DATE AND PLACE OF DUати U. S. CITIZEN PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING
Peter Carroll Clynn N/C
Margaret Mary McMahon N/C
Betty Marie Speer 107 Howard St. X
(sister)
Dumfries, Virginia 22191
Carolyn . Cashmen 505 Hillsboro Drive X
21 October 1966
Fall River, Massachusetts Silver Spring, Mi.
James Michael Glyan
(son)
Falls Church, Virginia.
Christine Marie Glynr 107 Howard St. X
(daughter) 20 January 1970
Falls Church, Virginia.
Vera Gover 107 Howard St. X
(father-in-lax) Dumfries, Virginia 22191
VerLin Speer (mother-in-law) Dumfries, Virginia 22191.

N/C N/C N/C
REPLACES EDITION OF I MAY 53 WHICH MAY BE USED.
(ENCLOSURE. 1)

DD... 398 Exception to Standard Fora 86
Approved by Bureau of the Bintant J 1050
02 004 2200

NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 4
12. OTHER RELATIVES AND ALIEN FRIENDS LIVING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES (Lint Grandparents, first cousing, kunta, uncles,
brothers- and sistera-in-law, and other persons with whom a close relationship existed or exists)
RELATIONSHIP AND NANE AGE OCCUPATION ADDRESS
-rics N/C N/C
13. FOREIEN TRAVEL (Other than as a direct result of United States military duties)
COUNTRY VISITED PURPOSE OF TRAVEL CITIZERSHIP
14. N/C
EMPLOYMENT (Show every employment you have had and all periods of unemployment)

HONTH AND YEAR RAME AND ADORESS OF EMPLOYER HAME OF IMMEDIATE REASON FOR LEAVEIS
SUPERVISOR
30SEPT70 CURRENT (NOSIC) NAVAL OCEAN SURV INFO CENTER
4301 SUITLAND RD., SUITLAND.MD.20390 Mr Donald Noble
MASS TRANSFER
NIPSSA "B" BLDG RT 50, ARLINGTON Mr Donald Noble NIPSSA TO NOSIC
JULY 1965 30SEP70 HALL, STA, ARLINGTON, VA.

(((((SEE SUPPLEMENT)))))

DIO ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? YES NO DO YOU HAVE SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
ANY FORSIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGH 022-30-2275
GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? ☐ YES NO HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? YES HO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.
15. CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons living outside the
United States or its Territorisa.

NAME YEARS STREET AND NUMBER CITY STATE OR
(List 3 credit and 3 character) KNOWN (Bashers address preferred). TERRATORY
Virginia Investment Co Inc74-74 4600 Lee Hwy Arlington Va 22207
John Hancock Life Ins Co 60-75 FO BOX 235 (ATTN MR MARGULIES) Falls Church Va 22046
Virginia National. Bank 171--79 PO BOX 1359 Norfolk Ma 23501
He?Mrs Lawson Pilkinton 74-75 110 Howard Street Dumfries Wa 22026
Mellies Robert Lutes 71-79 15110 Concord Drive(DaleCity)Woodbridge Va 2219.1
Mr&Mrs Carl Haller 59--79 3921 North Forestdale(DaleCity)Woodbridge Va 22191
Mic&Mrs Kenneth Malzi 69-7 4517 Weyburn Drive Annandale Va 22003
Me Sidney Madduz 164-73 801. Karen CU NO 102 Lamei 20810
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 5
STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY
INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all
answers. All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "None," so state. Do not misstate or omit material
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and
artach additional cheeta if necessary. The information entered hereon is for oficial use only and will be maintained in confidence.
12 ALL PERDES FROM SUY N ciny STATE EN COTRY
APRIL 74 PRESENT 107 Howard Street Dumfries Virginia 22026
MAY 691 APRIL 73922 North Forestdale Avenue(DALE CITY) Woodoridze Virginia 22191
(((((SEE SUPPLEMENT)))))
15. PAST AND/OR PRESESIY MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS
HAME AND ADHESS ΤΥΡΣ (Social, trasarnal, risaional, otc.)
American Legion, POST 139 SOCIAL
Wilson Blvd, Arlington, Va.
American Legion, POST 162 SOCIAL
Forton, Virginia (STREET UNK)
17.
YES NO
Y
X
X
HENNENSH CFFICE HALO
MEMBER
Jan 1969 Dec 74
MEMBER Dec 1974 PRESENT
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER DEEN A HENDER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY U. 5. A., OR AHY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS ANYWHERE
APE YOU W OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGANIZATICHT
ARE YOU HOW OR HAVE YOU EVER DEEN A HEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION, ASSOCIATICH, NOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH ADVOCATES THE
OVERTHACH OF OUR CONSTITUTISHAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR WHICH HAS ADOPTED THE POLICY OF ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COND HISSION OF ACTS OF FORNE
ON VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORN OF GOVERNSISAT OF
THE UNITED STATES DY UNCONSTITUTIONAL HEANSI
X
X
ARE YOU HOW OR HAVE YOU EVER DEER AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DECORISED ABOVE AS AN AGENT, OFFICIAL, OR ENΜΟΥΣΙ
ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH OR HAVE YOU ASCOCIATED WITH AHY INENVIDUALS, INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE ARE CR
HAVE DEEN MENDERS OF ANY OF THE CRGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIED ABOVET
HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED MEXIVE: CONTRIBUTICH(S) TO, ATTENDANCE AT Ca
PARTICIPATION IN ANY ORGANIZATIONAL, SOCIAL, DA OTHER ACTIVITIES OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY FROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM: THE SALE, GIFT, CADIS
TRIBUTION OF ANY WHITTEN, PRINTED, OR OTHER MATTER, PREPARED, REPRODUCED, DR PUBLISHED, DY THEM OR ANY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALITLESS
IF "YES" DESCRIOF THE CIRCUMSTANCES, ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS FOR A FULL DETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, SPECIFY MATURE
AND EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, INCLUDING OFFICE OR POSITICH HELD, ALSO INCLUDE DATES, PLACES, AND CREDENTIALS ON OR FORMERLY BIELO, IF ASSOCIATIONS HAVE
BEEN WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THEΣ ΑΞΟΥΣ ORGANIZATIONS, THEN LIST THE INDIVIDUALS AND THE ORGAPZATICHS WITH WHICH THEY WERE OR ARE AFFILLATED
NOHE
12. HAVE OVER DEFH DETAINED, HELD, ARRESTED, INDICTED ON SUMMED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDAHT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING OR CONVICTED, FISED, OR EMPRISONED OR
PLACED MODATION, OR HAVE YOU EVER DEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF AY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (oaching
minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of 315 or less tran mposed! INCLUDE ALL COURT HARTIALS WHILE IN PHILITARY SERVICE. Ο γες το
IFS LIST THE DATE, THE MATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE MARE AND LOCATION OF THE COURT CR PLACE OF HEARING, AND THE FEMALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER
DIVOST.OH OF EACH CASE.

TOR
NW 88326 Docld:32255104. Page 6.
12. AND THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE IOT HERITANCO HEREIN WHICH HAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE URGED STATES OR UFOR YOUR SUITABILITY TO RES
THE DUTIES WHICH YOU HAY BE CALLED URCH TO TAKE ON WHICH KIGHT REQUINS FURTHER EXPLANATION?
YES
NO
IF "YES" GIVE DETAILS
E. RENAMIKS

ITEM #13 "SECURITY CLEARANCES HELD"
ORGANIZATION: DEFT: CLEARANCE: INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY: DATE COMPLETED:
U.S.ARMY ARMY T.S. CRYPTO CTC DIO NDW АРРОХ МАНОП 1962
NAVY T.S. S.I. DIO NOW 05 MARCH 1965
FILE #1313-10
NIPSSA NAVY T.S. S.I. BELIEVED TO BE N.I.S. APPROX JUNE 1965
NIPSSA/NOSIC NAVY T.S. S.I. BELIEVED TO BE N.I.S. APPROX JUNE 1970
(UPDATE)

ITEM #10
(wife's step-brother)
NAME DOB/POB PRESENT ADDRESS U.S. CITIZEN
Thomas Howard Speer 25 October 1933 403 Hornel Avenue "YES"
Omaha, Texas. Baltimore, 24, Maryland.
21224
ITEM #14 "CREDIT REFERENCES"
VIRGINIA MORTGAGE AND INVESTMENT CO INC.....ACCOUNT NUMBER 0143270
VIRGINIA NATIONAL BANK ACCOUNT NUMBER 1001578
I CERTIFY THAT THE ENTRIES MADE BY HE ABOVE ARE TRUE, COMPLETE, AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN
GOOD FAITH. I UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM CAN BE PUNISHED SY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH
(Sys U. S. Code, titla 10, ection 1001)

DATE SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING TORM
1.5 APRIL 1975
TYISED NAPE AND ADDRESS THESS SIGNATURE OF WITRESS

MR DONALD W. NOBLE
21. 531.4 FENWCOD AVE.OXON HILL, MD. 20022
ERIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (tap escret, secret, etc.) 10 WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS
THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTIGATION

GARD
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 7

FINGERPRINT CARD OPNAV FORM-5510-2 (REV. S-66) (Supersedes OPNAV-32-327 (6-50)) 5/ 0107-792-2000
APPLICANT
LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANK
GHATURE OF PESSON FINGERPRINTED
PETER GLYNN CARROLL JR. SEX REF
LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NΑΜΞ M
RESIDENCE OF PERSON FINGERPPIN
107 HOWARD ST, DUMERIES, VA 22026
DIGNATURE OFÍONFICIAL TAKING FINGERPRINTS
COLOR
TYPE OR PRINT ALL REQUESTED DATA
(SER REVERSE SIDE FOR FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS)
1. RIGHT.THUMB
6. NUMBER
DOD NAC CENTER
Post Office Box 4
Fort Halabird, d. 21219
DATE FINGERPRINTED
COMPANY & ADDRESS
COMMANDER
NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMAND, 2461
EISENHOWER AVENUE
ALEXANDRIA, VA.22331
LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANK
15 APR 1975
CLASS.
PLACE OF BIRTH
FALL RIVER, MASS.
CITIZENSHIP
U.S.
7.
RACE
CAU
HAIR
GRAY
4.IN.
68
EYES
HAZEL
WT.
184
DATE OF SI4TH
05 MARCH 1940

2. PIGHT INDEX
3. RIGHT HIDDLE
4. RIGHT RING
5. RIGHT LITTLE
VELEFT RING
10. LEFT LITTLE
FOUR FINGERS TAKEN SIMULTANEOUSLY
RIGHT FOUR PINC
EN SIMULTANEOUSLY
LEFTETHUMA
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 8
FINGERPRINT CARD OPNAV FORM-5510-2 (REV. 9-66) (Supersedes OPNAV-32-327 (6-50)) 3/H 0137-792-2000
APPLICANT
LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANX
AGNATURE OF PERSON FINGERPRINTED
ESIDENCE OF PERSON FINGERPRINTčo
07 HOWARD ST, DUMENTES, VA 22026
SIGNATURE DE OFFICIAL TAKING FINGERPRINTS
Glet METER
TYPE OR PRINT ALL REQUESTED DATA
GLYNN PETER CARROLL JR.
M
RACE
LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME CAU
CONTRIBUTOR & ADDRESS
COMPANY & ADDRESS
DOD NAC CENTER
Post Office Box 4
Fort Holabird, Ad. 21219
COMMANDER
NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMAND, 2461
EISENHOWER AVENUE
05 MARCH 1940
HAIR
ALEXANDRIA,VA. 22331 CRAY
EYES
HAZEL
HT. (IN.)
WT.
68
184
DATE OF DIATH

NUMBER
DATE FINGERPRINTEO
15 APR 1975
PLACE OF BIRTH
FALL RIVER, MASS.
LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANK
CLASS.
CITIZENSHIP
REF.
US
2. RIGHT INDEX
3. RIGHT NIDDLE
4. RIGHT RING
5. RIGHT LITTLE
(SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS)
1. RIGHT THUMB
6. LEFT THU
7. LEFT INDEX
LEFTRIG
100EFT LITTLE
:
LEFT THUAS
RIGHE
RIGHT FOUR FINGEREN SIMULTANEOUSLY
FOUR FINDERS TAKEN SINULTANEOUSLY
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 9
HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY SECURITY AGENCY TRAINING CENTER & SCHOOL
Fort Devens, Massachusetts
SPECIAL ORDERS
NUMBER 1.75 EXTRACT 27 Aug 1962
15 TC 221. Fol reassignment dir. TDN. WP: 4 Sep 62 2132010 01-1361
-1363 P1513 599-999.
FRISBY, CLARENCE R RA15658275 PFC E3
303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Texas.
058.10 Co A USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to:
Rept Date: 7 Sep 62 PPSC: B
PCS (MDC): AD Nr Depn:1
ADC: 3 yrs Last FST & Tvl Sta: 2
BFED: 11 Dec 61 DROS: NONE
ETS: Dec 64 DMOS: 058.10
Lv Data: DDALVAHP-NONE FSAC: 6
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug D101-10
Sety Clnc: Interim TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 62
Sp Instr: To will detm & furn nec TR & AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt tvl fr N Sta to S Sta or Logan Airport Boston, Mass is auth.
GINCLEY, KENNETH E RA13750222 PVT E2 058.10 Co B USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd-USASA Bn, Camp Wolters
Rept Date: 7 Sep 62 PPSC: A
PCS (MDC); AD Nr Depn: 1
ADC: 3 yrs Last FST & Tvl Sta: 2
BPED: 22 Dec 61 DROS: NONE
ETS: Dec 64 DMOS: 058.10
Lv Data: DDALVAHP-NONE FSAC: 6
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug D101-10
Scty Clnc: Final TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 62.
Sp Instr: TO will detm & furn nec TR & MT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt Tvl fr N Sta to S Sta or Login Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

GLYNN, PETER Jr RA11396679 PFC E3 033.10 CO E USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Texas.
Rept Date: 7 SED 62 PPSC: A
PCS (MDC): AD Nr Depn: 0
ADC: 3 yrs Last FST & Tvl Sta: Z
BPED: 18 Sep61 DROS: NONE
ETS: Sep 64 DMOS: 058.10
Lv Data: DDALVAHP- NONE FSAC: N
EDCSA: 11 Sep 52 Sety Clnc: Final TS & Crypto Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug D101-10
Grad date: 22 Aug 62
Sp Instr: To will detm & furn nec TR AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt Tyl fr N Sta to S Sta or Lean Airport Boston, Massis auth.

ENCLOSURE (2)
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 10

EXTRACT:
SC175 HQ, U.S. ASA TNG CEN & SCH FT DEVENS, MASS.
16. TC 221. Foi reassignment dir. TDN. WP: 7 Sep 62 27 AUG 62
1363 P1513 899-999. 2132010 01-1361-
HOLBROOKS, JAMES R RA13752318 PVT ER 058.10 CO E USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Tex. PPSC: A
Rept Date: 7 Sep 62 Nr Depn: 0
PC3 (DC): AD Last FST & Tvl $ta: Z
AC: 3 yrs DMOS: 059.10
BPED: 18 Dec 61 DROS: NONE
E3: Dec 64 FSAC: 6
Lv: Data: DDALVAIIP-NONE. Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug 101-10
LEDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Grad date: 22 Aug 62
Sety cinc: Interim TS & Crypto
Sp instr: TO will detm & furn nec TR & AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas onlj
Govt Tv fr N Sta to S Sta or Logan Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

HOLLIS, CALVIN V III RA13750110 PFC E3 CO A USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 305rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Tex. PPSC: A
Rept Date: Sep 62 Nr Depn: 0
PCS (CDC): AD Last FST & Tv1 Sta: Z
ADC: 3 yrs DROS: NONE
BFED: 12 Dec 61 DMOS: 058.10
ETS: Dec (4 FSAC: 6
Lv Data: DDALVAHP-NONE Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug D101-10
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Scty clne: Interim TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 62..
Sp instr: TO will detm & furn nec TR & AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt Tvl fr N Sta to S Sta or Logan Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

FOR THE COMMANDER:
OFFICIAL:
Beel
T. S. BELL
Capt AGC
Asst Adj
GEORGE E FIGEL
Major, AS (Inf)
Adjutant
DISTRIBUTION: C & L
plus CUSASA ATTN: JAAG-AS AHS Arl 12, Va. (2 cys)
CO 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Texas. (5 cys)

ENCLOSURE (2)
NW 88326 Docld:32255104 Page 11

AUTHL NICAHON
VIVO YA
SERVICE DATA
DISCHARGE
TRANSFER OR

DATAL
SERVICE
DATA
PERSONAL DATA
RE-1
LEGEND: Insert N/A to the items below which are not applienela
2. SERVICE NUMBER
1. LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
GLYAN, PETER CARROLL, JR.
4. OMPARTMENT, COMPONENT AND
SCH CLASS
RA 11 396 679
5. PLACE OF BIRTH (Clty and State ar Country
30. GRADE, RATE OR RANK b.DATE OF RANK (Day, Mavir.
Fall River, Massachusetts
ILL AIS
70. RACE
& SEX
N/A
4. COLOR HAIR d. COLOR EYES
Gray
Brown
MAJOR COURSE OR FIELD
Academic
SP4 E-4 (P)
DATE
OF
BIRTH
Y6 Dec 62
DAY
MONTH
5 Mar
HEIGHT 1. WEIGHT 8. U.S. CITIZEN 9. MARITAL STATUS
672
172 YES NO
Single
40
Male
100. HIGHEST CIVILIAN EDUCATION LEVEL
ATTAINED
12 Years
110. ΤΥΡΣ OF TRANSFER OR DISCHARGE
b. STATION OR INSTALLATION AT WHICH EFFECTED
Transferred to USAR (See Item 18) FORT WOLTERS, MINERAL WELLS, TEXAS
C REASON AND AUTHORITY
AR 635-200 SPN 201 Expiration of Term of Service
12. LAST DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND MAJOR COMMAND
330th ASA Co (A) 303D ASA Bn (Corps) USASA
14. SELECTIVE SERVICE NUMBER
37 3
40
42
d.
EFFEC. DAY
MONTH
YEAR
TIVE
DATE
17
Sep
64
130. CHARACTER OF SERVICE
HONORABLE.