180-10147-10176 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

A10
The CIA has publicly stated that it never interviewed Lee Harvey Oswald. Numerous allegations have arisen over the years
since President Kennedy's assassination that Oswald wither had

been or should have been debriefed by the CIA upon his return
from the Soviet Union since he appeared to be in a position to
Unused duration
provide useful information due to the lengthy period of his residence
and employment there. The claim that no records exist
response

which indicate a debriefing of Oswald has stimulated speculation
that Oswald may have had some kind of Agency relationship
since the contact was not reported through normal

channels or whether the CIA communicated with Oswald in some
obviated(?)
manner which eliminated the necessity for a source debriefing.
alleviated(?)

The HSCA attempted to determine: 1) whether Oswald was, in fact, interviewed
by the CIA upon his return from the Soviet Union; 2) whether there is any
offered report of the interview if one was conducted; and 3) the reasons why Oswald
Actuality
would not have been interviewed if that was in fact, the case.
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
10147-10/74

...De.. response to the Warren Commission's request of
John A. McCone, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, submitted
an affidavit stating that "the CIA had no relationship

of any kind with Lee Harvey Oswald either"
The affidavit,
modifies that "the Agency never contacted him, interviewed him, dated 18 May 1964,
talked with him on weird or solicited any reports or information
from him, or communicated with him, directly or indirectly, in

any other manner" ( A. John McCone's testimony before the Warren Com-
Mission on July 14, 1964 made the same assertion....
fits the same assertion as to the Agency's lack of contact
Specifically
with Oswald. When McCone was asked whether the CIA had had
any contact with Oswald during his stay in the Soviet Union

McCone replied, "No, not to my knowledge, nor to the.. knowledge
of those who would have been in a position to have made such
(Warren Commission Hearings: SH 123).
He also responded
intact, nor according to any record we have.
negatively to the question of whether the CIA had any personnel contact
with Oswald subsequent to his return to the United States" (Ibid.)

Melone's affidavit was possibly motivated by the appearance of
An article on 23 February 1964 in the Tribune Magazine, which
made the following allegation:
"State Department records show that Oswald led several
meetings with the CIA representative in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow."

During this period, the Russian was seeking to renounce his citizenship.
One State Department cable, To 234, dated November 2, 1959, reports that
Oswald was interviewed by the CIA and other embassy officials (CIA FOIA Doc
and #697-786).
The CIA memoranda supporting this assertion both internally and
to the Warren Commission advises that this allegation is totally unfounded.
Memorandum
(Ibid. and CIA FOIA Document #1610-263). The memoranda explains that the

reference to the State Department cable" is erroneous and that the document
to which the article was referring in undoubtedly a State Department
despatch, To 234, which was dated 2 November 1959 from the U.S. Embassy

in Moscow. (Ibid.) (not a new paragraph).
Referring to the internal memorandum, the despatch contained no state-

ment refuting that Richard E. Snyder, who was the Second Secretary of the

U.S. Embassy in Moscow and the only person mentioned by name in
Memoranda
the despatch, had any CIA connection. (#1610-263)

However, the memorandan acknowledged that both Snyder and Edward
A. Freers, the State Department official who signed the despatch, had

had some prior connection with the Agency. Snyder had been employed
by the CIA for less than one year in 1950 when he resigned in order
Although the CIA's
to assume a position with the State Department, there is
records indicate the absence of a
history of Agency interest in

Freers, he was never actually employed by the CIA. (Ibid.)

the record of the Central Intelligence Agency throughout the years
As stated
is consistent with it's position stated to the Warren Commission
that the CIA never interviewed Lee Harvey Oswald. In February
1972 letter from Bernard Fensterwald to the Assistant Director of

the CIA requests any records pertaining to a "debriefing of Oswald
by or on behalf of the CIA following his return from the Soviet
Union. His request for information contrary to the Agency's previously

stated position appears to be generated by a statement made by
Richard Helms on 14 April 1971 before the American Society of Newspaper
Editors that "... if there is a decree that if a private citizen traveling

abroad has acquired foreign information that can be useful to the
American policymaken we are certainly going to try to interview
(CIA/FOIA FOL. #961-927-116).
Him Instenwald cites Oswald as appearing to be such a person."

This then follows an exchange of letters between Fensterwald and
Angus M. Thuermer who was then Assistant to the Director of the CIA

in which Thuermer refers Fensterwald to the testemony of McCone and
Helms before the Warren Commission Thuermer states that the testimony

is still valid; therefore the information you request does not exist. (CIA FOIA
Letter to
Then Fensterwald responds to this answer with a request for McCone from

Thuermer's own position with respect to the records rather than "conclu-
sions based upon statements of persons other than yourself." Thuermer
underlies the accuracy by stating that his previous response was

"A simple declarative statement in the worst possible extremity that
the Agency never had any contact with Oswald and that, therefore,
the information sought by you in you letter of February 7th does

not exist and never did exist" (CIA FOIA Fee #37C-927-AP.)
In April of 1978, the HSCA requested that the CIA provide a state-
ment as to whether Lee Harvey Oswald was ever contacted, spoken to

or interviewed by anyone directly or indirectly representing the CIA
Thereafter)
The Agency responded in the same manner it had acted in responding to
innumerous
requests from other sources, by way of referring the Committee

to the testimony of Helms and McCone before the Warren Commission and to McCone's
affidavit denying any Agency contact with Oswald. (HSCIADate 7/26/78

A 25 November 1963 CIA Memorandum (Viely Wrested in HSC.
On file LA FOIA 435 1757A) is the only documented evidence
of any CIA interest in interviewing Oswald. The opinion of the memo
Thomas B. Casasin stated: "As soon as I had heard Oswald's
written
name, I recalled that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed with

In Summer
sometime
then 1960- with the then Chief and Deputy Chief of the 6. Reverie
Section the laying one of interviews through channels or other suitable

channels. At the moment I don't recall of this was discussed while
Oswald and his family were en route to this country or if it was
after their arrival: (FOIA FOIA Document #435-173-A).

(Casasin) was interviewed by the HSCA Hay on August 17, 1978.
In this interview he stated that he worked as Chief of the 6. Branch
Assignment Terrin of CIA Employee
from September 1960 until his reassignment in September 1962. He
advised that the function of the 6. Branch was to assemble information
from defectors concerning details about Soviet life which would

then be used to assist persons working inside the Soviet Union. (Ibid.)
The 6 Branch also relied upon the CIA's Contacts Division and
the FBI as sources of this type of information, as well as collecting

information from the State Department and the press concerning
news in the Soviet Union. (Ibid., p.4.)
During this interview Casasin) recollection of the discussion

mentioned in the 25 November 1963 memo was that it took place
(Ibid, p.4).
during the last days of his service with the 6 Branch, this would

have preceded the discussion sometime in July 1962. He stated that the
date stated for the discussion in the memo must have been error-

eous as he was traveling with his family between assignments
in the summer of 1960 and did not begin his assignment with
Ibid., pp. 4-5)
the 6. Branch until September of that year. (Ibid., pp. 4-5.)

(Casasin) stated that at the time the Oswald use was discussed,
he assumed that Oswald must have been sent out of the Soviet

Union by the KGB. Therefore, reversing caution, he did not attempt...

to debrief Oswald what suggested that Oswald be debriefed by (KUTUMP)
which represented the office of Operations on office which debriefed

persons through its Contacts Division or "other suitable channels."
by which he meant the FBI of the Immigration and Naturalization
Ibid., pp. 4-5) He
Service. He did not believe that this had been done at
that time because this type of information would have been routinely
passed on to the CIA and to his section of well a debriefing had

occurred follower motation did had on Oswald it the time 222 in
the form of State Department dispatches. (Ibid.)
In the memorandum, Casasin) states that he told his subordinates

something to the effect of "Don't push too hard to get the information
(CIA FOIA Document #435-173-A).
we need, because this individual looks odd." He explained in the

interview that this statement reflected the CIA's assessment of
Oswald and in the unusual facts that Oswald was. protected by
the Soviets to remain in the USSR and... was further permitted to marry

a Soviet citizen (HSCA Stiff of In. Employee, 5/17/13, 5.).

(Casasin) stated that this interest in Oswald as expressed in the
memorandum was just a dead and that it was not unusual that the
(Ibid. p.9)
had been as follow-up regarding a debriefing of Oswald, he wrote

no memo at the time of the discussion as it was not customary to write
memos regarding leads that were dismissed and subsequently often
dismissed as being of no importance. (Ibid.)

(Walter P. Haltigan), the person to whom Casasin's 25 November 1963
letter was written, was then employed by the CIA as Chief of
(HSLA Staff Interview of off Employee, 6/13/78, p.1) (Haltigan's recollection was in
the Soviet Section of the Paris Station for a period of six years."

interview with HSC staff member states that because of the nature of
(Casasin). position when (non-official) own (usually) informally.
wrote informal memos such as the one in FOIA #435-173-A which

were then processed on through the use of ust-outs to the (Paris Station) (End.)
these memoranda would then have be forwarded to CIA Headquarters.
Haltigan however in this particular instance, Robert I.

generally
Kempuly, who served under Haltigan) received and forwarded.
the memorandum to Headquarters (Haltigan) was in the dispatch

The Memoranda States
Haltigan) expressed the general agency spirit whether that had the CIA
wished to contact & stirring defector, it would have done so through...

the Contacts Division of the ...
Heff/Office of Operations but that it was not standard
Operating
procedure to interview referring defectors, becallse thes you fell within the FBI's

jurisdiction. (Ibid., p.2.)

(Thones)
also told the HSCH
Glossasen/stated that the CIA had a specific interest in the Mink
so it was
the city contained some type of special design plants.
censor known that the city contained some type
But may have involved auration, nuclear energy or bacteriological

Storm interview of CIA Employee, pp.5-6). classic
Hawk
"tink"
frontly tough he did not see that 140. 140. so.
- he sectored that...
working in sey type of security faculty personal would have been a
the area of those plants would have been of interest to the Agency. (Ibid., p.6).

However, even with the presence of the deugs plants, Mikk Wh
ello.
not classified as a security or military purity era. (Ibid.)
(Casasin) believed that the CIA maintained a serge volume of
(Ibid.)
information on the Minsk radio factory in which Oswald worked thus

information was stored in the Office of Liveral and Reporting Hiff.
03
who worked in the fourments of the
in the Soviet March of the Strofe in 1962.

told the HSCA that de specifically recalled collecting intergenes
regarding the Minsk Redis Plant. (HS: Tetersize of CIA English, & Hist
p.1).
93 claims that, during
during
In fact summer of 1962 he ved
de
a contest report from representatives of the CIA's work field

office was interviewed a former Marise who had worked it the
Minsk Radio Plant following his dejection to the USSR (1214) this
person pos may love dure Oswald, had been
during
with his family in Minsk. (Ibid. (1) advised to Committee that

the contest report was filed in a volume concerning the Hack Redis Plant
wilet should be retrieved from the Industrial Registry Brand, or there was

the component of the office of Central Referee 562 ).
The HSCA requested that the IA provide the loanttee both the above-

Eisen bed content report and to volume of motoracts concerning this
Redis Plant.
I www
of te documents in the silered
½ Prince Redis Plant verified that no sued content report existed in their file.

TK 612.023).

The file review sed indicate that in 1975, Damel Schon wurd
made a similar request and was formed by the CIA that no such
repret existed. Ibid;)

The Select Committee on Assassinations requested that the central.
Intelligence Agency provide a written statement indicating whether.
the CIA
Whelter, from 1958-1963, interviewed on desiefed returning American
defectors to the Soviet Union as a matter of standard operating
(HSIA letter to LEA, 4/5/78).
-procedure, of the Agency was also requested to indict to the crecen-

stances under which in interview would we initiated if sues inter-
views were not conducted as standard operating procedure... (Ibid.)
The Agency's response indicated that the Counteruntelligence Staff

reviewed the files of 117 persons who had defected to the USSR
Between 1958 and 1963 and who dad subsequently returned to the United
ilanduin B. Hugh Tovar to Special Assistant to file for external Oversight, 4/20/78)..
If Memorandum
States // This wrew revealed that only ten of the 117 indurbuals had.
den
by sey component within the CIA.
Stotel
contacted and that the LTA had no proudure for the systemstie.
(Ibid.) the docacy maintained that
derefing of sucl persons. He trod the ortacts that were witrated sp.

peared to the Saved on opportunity and curcumstance Ibid.).
Another memorandum explained that the CIA had no standard.
perating procedure with respect to debriefing raterning American defectors....

as the Agency relied upth the FBI for reporting the results of interviews.
It may have conducted in connection with the repsonsabilelety for siteral
COCA Plembranciners, Fovar to Special Asst. to this for External Oversight 5/25/78).
security matters the agency further stated that there were as mens

regulations for the period of 1958-1963 which splifically addues the sitte
jeet of American defectors (Ibid.)
In fact, the ten persons with whom the ITA admitted levrey.

had estart did not stuetty meet the speelfie requirements as eas-
ted in the H.SCA'S request. Sves of the the waveduels het sot actrelly...
defected to the USSR during the period 1958-1963, but had resided
LITA Phenic from Tovar, 4/20/75/

thue for at least the yers prior to 1958 / three of the the indur duals
Abid
vettined to the United States and were siloscallently debriefed after 1963.

The CIA employee who conducted the reseered in preperation for the
Agency's response told Be HSCA that the requirements de had utilized in er

riving it this conclusions did bee sorcewthat bronder than Hooded requested 14
in mau to melinde ill those pesses regarded as lefectors who шие Леnding
in the Soviet Union diuing the time period in quester, retter ret thes just there wts
acterally depicted at that time. (ASIAS of 1/26/75).

The House Select Committee on Assassinations conducted a
review of defectors files in order to determine whetter defectors

other than Osprald were sorutinely debriefed upon their return to the
United States. the Committee requested that the CIA pinede a
list of persons travelling to the Soviet Union during the period from.

1958b2_1963, meluding.
both visitors and those persons considered by
the Agency to be "defectors"
Ja yaptase,
LIA
as provided a computer listing of
380 mduduals entitled "1.5.

Rewons. Who Have Dr. May Have Defected to the USSR Between 1956-1963"
Hugh Joier
4.5. persons,
stated that this cluting represented nadbordecal, meluding some mox ---

U.S. ectijcns who owed some measure of allegiance to the United States,
lad
who had either defected or skove some intention of defecting to the
wettin
USSR you the requested time period. retaining 75 Where I a b : A think

As this list was compile from a more detailed computer program

in American defectors,
a more detailed description conce screening.
Hese
indviduals was requested and provided in an expanded version of
the Higical livet. This mackice listing mcluded the following infor-

mation when covant or available
working for each
usch indurdual: name date and pleee
of birth, 201 file number arrival in soviet Union, departure.
J. Sont Unis, employment in Soviet Union, most current address,

and other miscellaneous information compiled from the individuals
201 file and for third agency documents sigarding this indurdust.
!" Expaniele per thest of il. S. in....")
The Committee compiled a list of persons who appeared More

the reformation sellable in the Agency's expended text, bo de ll. S.
itizens born in the United States, wes defected on attempted to defect

to the Soviet Union between the years of 1958 and 1963 and who se-
In addition,
Hurned to the United States within the same period of time. soon -

the Committee weluded-
readed vindurduels from an October 1960 State.
request for
Set
itese
Department information from the OTA regeringsperson whore.

they considered to be defecters to the Souvret Won or Sovet blse countries.

The HSCA requested files on swenty - nice durduals who fit the
above-sescribed criteria and the CIA provided files on swenty-light individuales

be when they meastrived records. Both 201 files were rewed as well
as very existing
the
Donente contact Revision files regarding these persons.

The HSCH file review revealed that in the cave of sth of the adviduals, thue...
is no indication that tay sorr returned to the Walted States. In some of
those caves the files contained a sport from a source who wowed in spoke with

the subjiset and ich reported to contact to the CIA, but there is 120 ixdece-
of direct cratect with esy of these peretes on the part of the ITA

shows thet
Le regard to the otte weaty - tor defectors, the file review diatas
He is no word of ITA contact with lighters of the figure for of have..

files contain a reports by a stureestato edirsed the Azury of them contact 1)
the
oni file regarding a former military person eratsine e report of a derefing
covered by military utiligince 1)

The clusters of the the HA's extent with the fire linerning petas
diffind in will use the file of He sturdieel efects thet de had.

actually years lung in the USSR suce 1933 sed vetttreed to the luted
States in 1962. He was debriefed by a
in 1964
spectrust
(sever of the applying for unployment in usporne to a swrapper -

tesnent (
was raw
Moovie) Another returning sepetor, Verold trynell
rawittingly wowrewed by a CIA
H
10
A be amevcut untasy in open...

leges upon his departure from the Soviet Union in route to the United States.
While ad file indicates that the Agency considered it stable
that a full and cratitled debriefing by the
the IA red FBI de conducted
and begletre wrote to the FOT suggesting & joint disipling, there is so

urence in Fornells 20 file vor in any ocs druments which suggest
furter watert on the part of the LIA...
More extensive debriefings were conducted of the other tos seputers. Ritect E.

Hist plestus expect with the Reed Development Corporation whose
lifection to the Soviet Union in AS9 was highly putted, returned to the
United States in Jure of 1962. Het de leer exployed in the

Serectile Institute of Phytickle tasties.
Street Unive it the
Rengiad Suthe

Shorty after his rettive to the Waited States Mister pre deorefed in des
Joxe tantry by sepresentatives from He CIA's office of Operations κα
in wijunction with seitsentatives

Se/o inepter the dis tree st was decided that a pre votersive
debriefing was in rider and ebasta was subsequently brought to the Washingtor,
D.L. area where he was breed for a period of two weeks. The debufing

reports welude a chronology of Kereteis life and the CIA's Messment of
ilim as well as a large body of reformation regarding life in the Soviet
Union, Hipster's work thue and Mographee formation on persons he
ill
mot during ilis usederes hui

soon,
Likewise tices Riccrdelli who had lived in the Soviet Union for
rearly for years, was wotected for purposes of dibreefng ty tr
shis return to the Waited States Milste Jure of 1963. His witial debuefing

weluded sued subjects as die motuation to defect is ite USSR be well
se. well as setirties ingaged in during his onero stay, weletion.
from Moser to uw and rued aspects of life sued is residence cotties.

D.ed costs. Ditile the CIA fuit it was unferible to teorief Recuerdelle.

more Hormighly sum. to his cinct status of Attempting to ugais 11.5.
etizenship, the Agency sxpressed in interest in
whiting more information
on suck tapees as cost of living, sideel we, consumer goods, lytwaye,

transpretation and restructions upon travel within Kie...
It. hermes har firm the wiew of files on base defectors that difing.
by the CIA
of sefectors was, in fact, somewhat of
A галдок сени. However.u
the instaress in wheed the
the Agency did. eksose to debrief rettining.

defectors, the igercy appeared to be interested in toples of general interest
regarding life in untais aves of the Soviet llews: In this regard, 12 pisosa.
who were destruped were similar to isoald in that they deputed sed estrused.

itten
sael
one the same general time period and pics spent his time in the strest
Unior in arves of attest to the CIA..

It appears from an seanisation of all walelle materials,
that Yeu Hawe Intersweisund by the CIA following

His setara to the United States from the Suret
Howey Oswald we act w
Souret Union Atticip
persons in a breed of the souret Russia Aversion. uxpressed an.
witrust in interweg Oswald, they never followed up.
Collection
There is also as induction that the ort
on this veltust.

of the affe
of Operations inttwewed Oswald.
While the CIA did conduct towers of some tourists was

visited the Soviet Unio the-1963 as well as the
during his period. 1959-1963.
Americans eutigens was defected to the Soviet Union and the released to..
the Wested States, there was no standard policy to utiwrewell pusors.

nuttle istegory. Thus, the fact that Oswald was not_intewiewed
wrs: more the rule than the exception sccording to preces followed
by the CIA at that point in time.
