180-10144-10068
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

CIA files on these persons were requested and screened by HSCA
staff members.

Hair contact with the defector to the Agency.
*Hair
Bread) One file re: a former

military person defected a report of a debriefing conducted by mil. Intell. having

Mish the remaining Hindus, area
H.I.
Rice: info. Of the remaining Hindus who were direct Ag. contact upon their ret. to the U.S., the
in Soviet aceas

Webster:
The reumstances of the agency's cratest with 4 zemaining wdws were deff. in cols
(*) Another returning H.C., ves
eff in cold. An Emb.
case of few was uittingly Interviewed by a CIA officer in the As. Emb.
14-6
perlege up his depertore from the S.U. a route to it heat the Agency comidered that
to the U.S. White I's file mielente
FBICK
a full & controlled.
debriefing why the CIA & FRI conducted & Angleton wrote to the FBI suggesting a joint debriefing, there is no
evidence in I's 201 file non any DCD docs. which suggest further contact on the past
of the CIA.
Due of the individuale had that file uphets that he
returned to the
retrally been huag in the USSR since M338 W
• he was second by the stoneplus ever often
He was s

befed by a CIA offre wing DDD ene after applying for employment in
uspoace to a scurs paper advertisement (Rev. of anson file)
Avent debuffings ure conducted of the other the def. R.H. E. Webster, therigely

expect with the Read Dew. Copy 1959 wee whight
the who defectionate
aplastics was

publicized.
Mine ratensive defuefings were conducted of the altre 2 defe. R.H. E. Nitrate, a plastics
expect with the Read Dew. Copy whore defection to the S.1. in 1959 wal mighly publicized
ut. to the U.S. in 6/62
Suntty thereafter, the Agency conducted a goal they
of Wielkster is his home territory. Wechaters had been employed in the 5.1. at the leningrad strati
Sutit. of Polytechic Plastics
----

BR
180-10144-10068
---

was corroborated.
Donald Deulya
aviked
this fact
bykarttu. as the In employee facts worked in the FDD in the
Sor. bread of the Ductorate of Intelligence in 1962 told the HSCA that he specifically
recalled Meeting intelligence infs regarding the Brick Radio Plant, fi fact, Denatyr
during
reviewers that, during the summer of 1962, he wewed a contact report opam
1961 he
istisers
for reps th the CIA's N.Y. fedd office, who interviewed a former Macine
who had dilk wwcked at the Beaal Radis Plant following his defection to the USSR.
This person wrto Dexcelya believes may have been Oswald had cken chirag wllis family
in Minsk. Deneslye advised the Committee that the evetect report was filed ma
volume comeuning to reich Radio Plant wiel should de retrievable fromethe sadustrial
Registry Brand which, in 1962, was a compent of the Och.
The HSCA repesettia

(11/18
TOLIA The HSCA requested that the OTA proude the lommitteech both the above.
suecked contact report & the not. of materials concerning the Wind Radiolast.
the wrew of the does. in the volume of the. M.R. P. vealed that no such
Roder
The te te going to disk de contact report sxisted in that
file (oce) the file wiw did induate that in 1975, Daniel Schorr Jad mede
such report
a similar guest the CIn Ukat no perusted. it was formed by

If the the 29 purns requested Ag. was not able to locate file for me ndio.
21
• In the case The gels of botten wurs., the file the U.S.
review did not indicate that. they
22
The ASCA veewwed.

files on on the indive who fit the above-descubed cuteria & sex proveded. the CIA
'Batter files
files on 22 of 29 28 indir on whom they maintained records. at 201 files
wru recrued as Des feles por regarding these mdivs. In the care of hindies.,
there is no mallation in their files that they lor returned to the U.S. Even 50, there were
occasional reports from. sources who obrewed or spoke by these persons while in the S.4.,
well as any existing
but there is no indication of duect contact of them by the CIA.
thue is no need of direct CIA contact
In regard to the other 22 file wiew ndertes that.
22 defectors, there
(4)
w/18 of them. Again, some of these files contain a report from a source who reported
---

It becomes clear from the screw of files on these defs. that debriefing
of defectors, was in fact somewhat of a random lшнее. How the
whet the dy appeared
lu
nstances constaxer consistered when the dy did choose to debrief Vetering a defec
wesyet to be interested in way topres of genud interest
of the Sov. the suga
00 -
the persons who wen dete
isch spent weil bice in the S.ll. in
ugs. Wiferij ustain
Where
cre
geval time periodis
sucker to in that they 14. & ret. 0/1in the ageral
arces of interest to the CIA.
2
Mon est, deb, were conducted of the other deft. R.E. W., a platies uspect w/R.A.C.
wisse def to the S. 1. in 1959 Nwas highly publicized dot to the U.S. in 6/62.
W had been imperyed in the S.U. at the her. Selent. Lustit of Polytech.lastics.
Skritty after his reten, Heras debriefed in his home tumitory big butt fion
00/8, 52/6 & He AF. It was decided that a more ect. debriefing was in order
& W was subsey, brought to the Whalington when he was deb for a period of 2 wks...
The deb, reprits wel, a chon. of W's life & the ITA's assess. If din as well as
1. Ige. sady of lip. regarding life in the 5.1., W's work there & ding, info.on
persons le had met during his uendence
contacted
Ref 1/59
Ref. 6/28/63
Likewise, Kikes cuartelli who had dued in the S.1. for nearly 4 yrs.,
was lose for purposes of ebriefing shortly after his ut. to the IU.S. in
late Jure of 1963. His mitial debriefing nebudel such subijs es dis moturation to
Refer to Usse as well as activities ngay regaged in doung stay, relocation firm
Moser to Kiew & genual repects of life such as essence critics & costo deriba
to Ag. felt that they would be wriented in Melting more reso. nege life
ith has coat of durag, med. care, coreumer goods, glave highurys, transport...
& restrictions wyth kun,
on suck toples
While the OTA felt it was unferecible to debrief R. more threegely due to his current
status of trying to regain 4.5. cit.,
the big fit
---
1422-1125-B: Indexcards

#ル23-1125-C
Dated 300ct. 1945
Risellises letters intercepted
States that copies of intercepted letters were passed to FBI in
course of normal charge of intelligure. sabstarce doesn't relate to JFL
assess.
"The words wameed to date do not disclose whether or not
this information was mede veil. to the N.C. by the FBI CIA.

Vol.5 608-256-C
written by WHO to patter
Lettre en forwarded to CIA by letter dated 11. March 1964
from J. Hee Ranker, I. C. of H.L. & R. Helms, DDP

Latro -questions
Seil. Backgd.
Index cards
HSCA question
Agcacy-semporise
---

testimony
affutavit
1038-405-B
Insert fer et stast llistorcy
I. CIA statements to H. C. (1988-927-BA
CIA isso, provided W.C #1063-964-B #1073-964-L)

II. CIA statements to reste (#964, 962, 969. 970)
CIA statements to HSCA; NCH;
Ⅲ. T.B.C. memo & interviews (#435-173-A)
It. Defectors
M.K.
S.O.P.-ACO
[#3369]
(#1004-400)
IG.R.B. request #609

LTO
Su #1188-1000 p.3.
618-673
609-786
610-263
1188-1000
1004-400
1187-
Hock-Rock. Comm.
