2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
OS
OF 
2/13/78

SECRET

Periodic File Summary(done components)
Alexis Davison: A Nedelya article named one Malcom
Toon as the supervisor of CIA operations in the Moscow Embassy.
Daniel Carswell - after his return from Cuba in April of 1963. His travel was restricted until August 1968. 
Carswell is 6', 180 lbs, has grey eyes and brown hair. He was imprisoned with Eustace H. Danburnt and Edmund R. Jaransky.
Luis Posada:
1960 - member of the Frente Revolucionario Jose A. Echevarria in Cuba.
1961 - on February 25 Posada sought political asylum in the Argentine Embassy, in Mexico City. He arrived in the U.S. on February 2/8. 
In April of 1961 he was trained for the Bay of Pigs

SECRET

- 2 - 
invasion in Guatemala. 
In October 1961 he took a job with the Firestone Rubber Company, Akron Ohio. He stayed at this job until March of 1963.
1963 - On February 21, 1963 the CIA put into motion the beauracratic machinery necessary for an interview of Posada. 
In March of 1963 Posada joined the United States Army. He served at Fort Benning Georgia in the Infantry. and 2nd Platoon (weapons), Co. B, 1st Battalion, 29th Infantry Brigade 197
In June divorced his wife, Maria Concepcion Castaneda Napoles in Chicago. (PDOB: 1931, Cardenas, Martanzas, Cuba; married 1955; last known address: 6540 Seville St., Apt. C, Hunington Park, CA.)
In August the CIA granted permission for an interview

SECRET

-3-

NOTIFIED THE INTERVIEWING component THAT THE FBI HAD NO OBJECTION TO THE INTERVIEW
Posada claims that he joined JURE at some point during this year.
1964. Posada left the U. S Army in March with the rank of 2nd lieutenant. 
In September he claims he was employed by the Pan Am cterminating Co. 275 S.W. 6th St, Miami. He also claims to have been representing JURE in the Dominican Republic in 1964.
1965. In April Posada is in Miami working as an autobody repairman when he also was instructed was a training instructor. 
A name check returned positive from FBI, ONI, INS, the cadunt senerals Office and the Army Chief of Staff Fort intelligence. The FBI reportedly has evidence

0002333
-4-

SECRET

of Posada's involvement in a plot to kill Castro in this year.
NOTE: Posada claims to have been the chief instructor for JURE camps for three months ! in an unspecified year in the early 60's.

Additional info:
1.  AKA: Luis Clemente Carriles
Bambi Posada Carriles
Bambi Carciles
Julian Posada Carriles
Julian Carriles

2. He has, at times, listed as references:
Carlos Porro, 395 E. Jallmadge, Akron, Ohio.
Antonio Sarcia, 3604 S.W. 26th Terrace, Miami, Fla.
Segundo Ortes, 485 Carnegie Ave, Akron Ohio
Dick Patterson, , Akron, Ohio

SECRET
-5-

3. SS # 265-72-1345

4. US Army #C-2312445
US Army dossier #265-17-1345

6. Posada associates with "hefty" Rosenthal in Miami.
7. Posada claims to be an excellent Marksman.
Cesar Diosdado

WITH CUSTOMS.
HE SERVED
AS A SOURCE
FOR THE CIA,
CIA 
PAID HIS 
SALARY

DOB 8/16/21, horado, Jepas. employed in 1961a. Has allegedly been involved in gun running since 1957. Allegedly sold guns to a group planting an invasion of Harte in 1966. In 1967 Jose Ricardo Rabel Nunez told a press conference in Cuba that Diosdado was a CIA recruiting agent. 
Diosdado uras the under-cover agamet who busted Richmond Ada Harper in 1972

SECRET

-6-
in a guns for heroin deal.
David A. Phillips (two components)
2/1/51 to 2/28/51 contract agent
1/25/52 to 7/31/53 "
3/4/54 to 1/31/55 " employee
4/1/55 to 2/6/56 staff employee
2/7/56 to 8/13/58 staff agent
8/19/58 to 3/13/60 CONT. Ag. (CULA)
3/14/60 to retire. staff employ.
1961-1966 Mexico
in 1963 was in charge of Cuban Operations.
Mitchell L. WerBell III

held provisional operational approval from 8/4/59 to 10/14/5-9. He has been characterized as a con man.
In Oct wind bept 1942, he did try to get several hating American governments to recognize an govern

SECRET

-7-
isanent in exile. He has regulars volunteered information to the CIA and has often impersonated CIA officers
associates:in Cuban Affairs:
Edward mcbill
Edward Lewis Bankston
Chester Gray AKA Zochowski.
Rolondo Masferrar
Bruce Arman Baker
11379 President Drive N.E.
Blaine Village, Minn.
Robert Bayand
Walter Joseph Meckem (Mackem)
POOB 12/13/37, Omaha, Neb
2609 N. Potomac
Arlington, VA.
Steve Van Cleave
Edward Marger
Paul Bethel
Charles Hall
Robert K. Brown.

SECRET
Werbell's POA was cancelled because the CIA determined he was trying to use the agency for personal reasons (more detail in 201 summarys)

893-8100
HARDWAY
SECRET 05- HUNT
1

1949 joined CIA PPS/OPC

Was in Vienna in late 40's with Economic Coop. Admin. where before youning CIA.

12/11/50 resigned to accept position @ state

There is no indication of his rejoining the Agency but there are clearances for his novels.

1951 - "The violent ones"
1951 - "Whisper Her NAME" while DCos under State Cover. WHO
1952 - "Paris VIII"

1953- 15 IN Mexico - returns HQ in Feb. for reassignment

1953-. "Darkness on the hand" rejected coz racism used systonym? by Edwards

SECRET

SECRET

-2 -
Hunt
Os withdrew denial when it leayned that Hunt would be reassigned to hatin America.
1954 travelling in Europe! JAPAN

1957 assigned 3/1/57 to Montevideo, Uruguay
- some kind of stir before assignment - re: lost cables Hunt was polygraphed.
Skips to:
6/18/65 assigned to Madrid cao cam Io.

1966 working @NATO intelli.

1970 memo on Give us this Day Bill Buckley was youshing it, Holt, Khinchart declined to publish coz "too, controversial." ibid ailington House

SECRET

SECRET

-3-
HUNT

Hint left Montevideo in 1१७०
was in Cuba 12/7-15/56
Mexico 12/50 to 3/55
9/27/60 Hunt given alias "edivard. J.Hamilton"

dw. 6/63 u po box was opened in D.C. for Hay under the alias. (woodridge Station)
(10/60 assigned IMWAVE

box cancelled te 1.65
1970. retired
7-60 to 10-60 assigned MCS 1157 to 6/60 Montevideo.
7/60 to 3/61 was @JMATE in MC & Coral Gables

SECRET
SECRET
-4-
HUNT
Iwicker compromised on 12/2/60 & canceled. was assigned "Derence to Chabanoe."

was COS in monterioba
President Nandone of Uraguay asked Eisenhower not to transfer Hunt.

Envelope. "1960 Personal Information re: Auto accident, desire to stayon in Uruguan assignment and work related problems!"
June 27, 1960
6/27/60 Hent TQỵ to Cuba
then to Mexico on PCS under Commercial cover. both JMARC Duties

I to for JMARC мах Joseph hangan.
Hunt was polit.action officer, representative to FRD in Gulo Mexico.
SECRET

SECRET
6/23 memo from to Dep Dir. Sec.; From DDS (Inves. & open.sup). calls Hunt "something of a character and free wheeler". Hunt wants on gun +α Conventorable for use in me hangan would be happy if Hunt used on project

Tracy Barnes denies pushing Hunt for position - says hes fust just an interested friend
J.C. King informed of Security's reservations.

To Chief SRSIOS
From 24 JAN 1961
CHIOS LO
1/161 O.S. concerned coz ndunt is giving life on operations to Uraguana officials
"subject has been a probem in the past and apparently
SECRET

0002342 -6- SECRET
Hunt continues to be a probem"

Effective
Mary 7/14/1962 Hunt reassigned to DOP IDODS

3129- Facilities franch
1000 Research Publicationss D.C.
Chief of branch or Section stayed on covert funding.

9/21/62 military cover bar Hunt established with. U.S. Army Element Composite Operations Group. (8738)

11/15/61
Hunt reassigned to: DDP/CA staf Plans & Research Group Evaluation Branch D.C.. C.F. to C.F. from DOP/WH/Br4/0eMoros
Documents indicate that SECRET Hunt knew Richard Obser as far back as early

SECRET
0002343 -7-
Hunt
50's - worked operatioàn with himen 9/61 (approved by Aklims)

1/17/62 reassigned DDP/CA STAFF Office of the Chief. CF to CF. 2121-1000-1000
"Re Investigation + Apprasel Infor dtd 11/62 + 2/63" Sanitized version

11/62 Hunt requests that wife be allowed to work at spanish ty Security disapproved. - big to do, several documents
SECRET

SECRET
0002344 -8-
Hunt

Memorandum for the Record: subject: Procurement of Intelligence by mus, Dorothy L. Hunt.

1. On 25 February 1963, d delivered to Mr. W. Lloyd seorge, Chief, FI, thermo-fax copies of a memorandon and a letter of transmittal dated 18 and zo February respectively. Both were prepared by Ambassadore Both were s Antonio Sarrigues for Prince Stanislas Radzilvill and. taken to the latter in New York by alfonso de Borbon, ad secretary of the Spanish Embassy in Washington.

2. The pursport of the material was to enlist the aid of Radzivell in (a) persuading the Peresident to visit madried during his next European trip, and (b) conveying to the SEGRET President the vieمس iws of

0002345 SECRET
9
Hunt
Ambassador Saniques regarding 4.5.- hatin- American relations

3. Mr. George regarded the material to sensitive to be handled by routine means, and decided to show it only teo mụ Helms.

4. On 27 February 1963, Mr. Seorge telephoned me to say that he had just shown the materiaal to mụ. Helms who speculated whether he ought not take it to the White House at once. mr. beorge demurred pointing out the sensitivity of the source (my wifed, whereupon Mr. Helmo indicated that nothing should be done inth the material until Mr. George returned from a Jan East trip and could consider the matter SET further.

SECRET
-10-
HUNT

5 mu George then asked mo. Helms whether my wiife should register under the Foreign Agents Registration act, and mi Helmo said that under the circumstances ishe absolutely should mat signed H. H."

MEMO F.R. This upset blgency because 4/18/63 "mo. Hunt is engaging in Parintelligence collection in L.G. the United States - without- aryy official sanction"

Os objects but C/FIS shores operational interest.
Hunt apparently. @DODS at linave

Searge + Helmo decide to have her stayong & so inform security 10 MAY 63 SECRET

SECRET
0002347 -11 -
HUNT
1964 Hunt rites William Buckley's showon Invisible Government entitled "Hate CIA week" Letter from Buckely to Hunt attached to anticle. Carver sheet (Routing + Record says: "The following attatched draft column by Bill Buckley will appear in 75 5 4. U. S. 5. newspapers.... background of this placement is the fact, that Buckley worked for me as a Staff Agent in Mexico 1950-51 and we have remained close friends." Copies to Helmox DCI. Cali/64

Re - Investigation Program for Hunt

7/9/64 reassigned DOP/APO SECRET US Field / CA Staff CF to CF 5129-0253

SECRET
0002348 12
Hunt
2/16/65 reassigned to DOP Operational services Office of Chiết 3-126-0117 CF to V.

Hunt resigned in 1965.
نماييد ابعييد official State cover.

15/8/68 Hunt. worked as DDP representative on CIA lecim preparing the historical material for the Johns Libran Mr. Hunt will be requyred to have access to documents in botng the TKH and BYEMAN systems

Will Come Ames Noz replaced Hunt ΙΟΣ as polit officer for Frente in mid-March's!.

Hunt's book terms Can + Noel as "Col. King's Crony" who were active in non-frente cuban groups thereby undercutting him.
SECRET

455-4566
SECRET
0002349 13
Hunt
Hunt. Connection to A "Henry. Durkin" VIA MAXWELL Wil HWil "C.w."
Voluntarily retired after this fracas..

Working on same operation in 1954 as Phillips
Interview report 2//24/70 reason: retirement. states that Hunt has taken job & Mullen & Co and that Raranessines has asked him to keep in touch. also notes that Muller does provide cover bor agents.

174
Memo dated 2/22/74 For the record from Laurence J. Howe, re: interview of Ised Evans. Edward Ryan.
SECKLI

0002350
-14-
SECRET
HUNT
Hunt was assigned to Madrid between 7/65&9/66.
Ryan was DC/WED.
said Hunt's assignment was handled wa benefit of routing processing.
Karamessines
W.2. totally u unawan of of his activities, targets, etc.

Hunt was on "Contract A "Status at time.

2/1974 CIA tries to trace down K+ Awhoạt Hint was doaring.
2/15/74. memo of intervie Budget O who would have been responsible for Hunt's Kete:
It was his memor habet that. Aunt's habí to deal only with the most senior officer available."
SEGHET

0002351
15-
SECRET HUNT
couldn't find any record of operational funding in office of finance files
1.
Envelope
"Current Os sources and urces Methods (not relevant to HSCA inquiry
Envelope
"Documents regarding Hunt's 'hetter address' laccomodation address) set up in 1963 and terminated in 1965- laddress is still being used by another indir.)"

6/3/70 better memo from dees to Os
C.S.A requested crally on 5/28/70 for sant under Project QKENCHHUNT
Os refuses war first gaining concurence of

0002352
16-
SECRET HUNT
CCS. memo to DDP. approval norted + signed by Karamessines 10/14/70.
evidently the plan was that Hunt world take over ma of Mullen & Co from Mullen
8/30/71 DDP requesteol ny Hunt bio after youning WH staff

MEMO F.R.
Holograph sp novels wees were
sponsored by the CIS.

CC's has asked ID of Dawid. St. John - fre from.05
"Inasm auttion contacted ed Sayle, SRS:

"Inasmuch as subject hand written under the guidance of CI staff, SECRETSayle advised against identifying him by name.... He suggested

0002353
SECRET
HUNT
instead that I inging be directed to refered to Ray Rocca, Deputy Chief, I staff ... or Mr Angelton.....
1/
Rocca later denies
Documents on Photo allegation.
It was brought to CIA'S attention cry Saum jaffe on 9/2011다.
Finance records show Hunt took his sick leave for Hiwk period ending 11/23/63.
next & wks he took 3 hrs. sick leave +27 hrs annual bave.
travel records show official travel to N.Y in 9,10+13/63.
SECRET

0002354
SECRET
-18-
HUNT

10/15/74, memo for record by Evan Kuhnken re action takenon the photo allegation
action limited lo bile review "and a search of our records which produced the Jack Anderson article refened to...

"A Bum Rap for Frank Sturgis in Miami WP. 4/16/14. PB15.
twas working under a special assistant to the DDO., Seymour Bolton..

Mr. Jo Bolten appeared ODS+T satisfied and advised
Analysis appeared necessary that at this time.'
also discussed potentiality that they would some glay have to present proof to SEililiki a Cang. Comm. that Hunt - there.

0002355
OFFICE of Security
SEUNCI
File.
Alexis H. DAVISON

5/7/63 Memo for Record Wash... Post Clipping re Davison trip to Oslo. May 6-63., at end of tour of duty.
5/7/63 NYT article - same subject

Indices Search Request. 5/7/63 found reference to bide on Grerielle Wynne.
Memo for Record 5/31/63 sei by Rasy hary 5. Cline (DDH) e visit from Lt. Colonel. Donald M. Dessert from Air Force Intelligence re-inquiry as to whether A.D. had been used in ang CIA other than Penchowsky - DDI informed aps him he hadnt.
6/4/64 Memo: Mathers address + quote, from Wise + Ross passed to FBI. SECRET

SECRET
0002356
DAVISON -2
16 May. 1966
Check on Mayorie Clave Anderson churned out reference to Darion (Uncle-In-Law).

1 February 1 SRS memo re exposure of CIA Personnel re article sand ameant operations were being supervised by a Mr. Malcom TOON.

29/Nov/72. SRSMemo to files rame check on soviet Visa Black hist. request for check from CSCI
Finis.
SECELE

43872
SECRET
0002357
5 File.
DAVID LAMAR Christ
9/9/50 Memo from Contacts Officer, Personnel Security 10/20/50 Branch. to Intelligende
Negative Integration Division. RESPOSE. (name.check)
DOB 1/20/18.
POB TAMAGUA, PA
Address: #2 MountAIN, PA
8/30/50. Request for Investigation to FBI
9/22/50 Visner memo to Chief, Inspection & Security re: clearance for Christ. Served @ Signal Corps, U...s. Army, wWI 'Security WAIVER"
10/3/50
security waiver i given request for Provisional Clearance, Christ placed in Unclassified Pool on 11/1/050.
8/ Nov./50.
SECRET
FBI response to Investi.... of Christ-NR reported by

SECRET
0002358
a "no, Shanklin"
11/9/50
P.C. granted for Christ as an Electronics engineer GO-10 in OP.C. "Office of Policy Coordination" prigleccessor of DDP.
1930 FBI reports on backgoround enveloped.

11/22/50
recomendation from Appraisal Section for f security approrial

11/24/50 security approval granted Notice to Employees Division

11/24/50
notice to Phys. Soc. Branch.
1/23/5-1 SECRET
permission for Christ to work part time after hours @sholar. Services, Inc.

SECRET
0002359
Christ-2.
12/11/5-1
Christ transfered to TSD.

3/3/5-2
permission granted far attendence of Institute of Radio Engineers meeting NY.C. 3/3-6/52
6/19/3-2
Christ security violation for leaving safe open. & transmitted that shelt for report.

7/29/5-2
update on Christ statis address:
5-405 Hamilton St Hyattsville, md. shamed apt
چین
Salmeron Diffine Clyde
now is12-كيف ٠
SUPERVISOR: PAUL. Η LEE. associate: Thom strope
SECRET

0002360
SECRET
Christ, p. 3.
note there is a photo

12/18/5-2
letter Commanating Seneral of Wright-Patterson that Christ will ! CIA at conference ere.

2/26/53
confirmation of Christ Security cunt toe Direc. If R+D, Pentagon. Christ in applied Physics. Division of Iss.

4/23/5-3
authorization too attend IRE conference in NY.

9/15/53
confirmation of S. c. tor
af ano ities.
undated personel action
list SECRET

0002361
SECRET
Christ-4
9/28/53.
confirm 5. C.tor D.S

10/9/5-3
IBID. to Army Signal officer
10/30/53.
IBID. TO NAUY
11/3/5-3
security violation report + transmiltal
3/4/5-4
3./4/FRE CONVENTION Approv

6/9/5-4
mane ck on Darathy Anne Sampson kicks out Christ's
confirm 3.C. to AEC.

10/15/3-4
10/29/54
IBTP to Naval ops.

SECRET
0002362
SECRET
Christ-5
12/18/5-24
request clearance for "Special dintelligence"
12/9/54
clearance requested! @ P.S.D.
1/19/5-5-
SC.confirm too signal Corps,
1/31/55
IBID. to. Sec. of Def Office.
2/24/55
IRE.CONVEN. App.
4/21/55
authorization to remove tech equip. brom
CIA Buildings
Undated-
ΡΑΝΣΙΣΚΑΜ. HAVE NO Obj;
to Christ becoming member of Career Staff.

SECRET

SECRET
0002363
Christ-6...
8/18.155...
CLEACANCE Cact to Bur of Aero.
9/5/55
IBID....
311/56
IBID - Wright-PattersON
2/21/56
IRE CONVEN.
4/13/56
Coverseas travel approval to Japan, Formosa + Korea. Air Force cover.
724/56
Clear.. Cert. to CI. /AF.
124/56
request for preceding

9/6/54
Certified to Bureau of Sles
SECHET

0002364
SECRET
Christ-7.
9/7/54
request for cert.
3/4/575
IRE conven.

4/11/5-7...
A.EC. request for Class Q

4/15-15-7
IBTO
7/19/57
Christ pledge re: contents of A Security File revίεω For FBI. -means they neviedved it re: "Q^ charange. alamic energy charance,
625/5-7.
travel auth for "various EE" under A.F. Cover
8/15/57
List of Children
SECRET

SECRET
0002365
Christ 8
8/20/57
Q clearance groanteat

9/17/57
travel to South Amer.

9/19/57
listing of previores employment. (informal) but doesn't make any sense & may not relate to Chúst.
3/15-15-7
Clearance - cert.
9/17/5-7
fos travel auth. Air Force Cover.

Enuzloped
1957 third FBI backgrd. Investigation. & transmitat
11/8/57 Bio Summay sheet. form. 180 A
9/25/5.7 Invest. Frans. Sheet.
U

SECRET
0002366
Christ - 9
11/12/57.
IBID
11/15/57
IBID

3/3/58
reassignement from R+D (applied Physics tor Tech. Ands Audio sup. Div

2/26/58
request to Records to black CIA associi. @Christ coz he's going under cover.

3/7/58
travel auth: to Karachi Teheran, AnΚΑΓΑ, Athens, Frankfurt, VIENNA, ΣΧ.ΑΙ, A.F. Cover.

4/4/58
SECKE
cable IN 12282 request sec conf. so he can enter Berlin.
-
Note that it was done

SECRET
0002367
SECRET
Christ-10.
5/1/58
locked name Bracoens

1/22/59
CCB request for block,

1/2359
Travel Author. LONON & Fraw& fort
AF COVER.

8/11/60
Special Secrecy Agreement" re ProjectMARC.

3/13/60
(GS-5) Travel Αuth. Rabat AF COVER.

04/12, 13/83 - Interrogation Research Dir. - Info Flag sheet > ΜΣΑΝΣ he was polygraphed As part of debriefing After return from CUGA. SECRET

SECRET
0002368 Christ-11
9/23/60.
Credit chk report..... + lolocks placed

8/20/63
Memo for bile says that "mu. Miller, Chief, Central Cover Staff, and Claraviman of the ZRCHEST, Panel" reported that Christ seeking approval for toy authorization outside of us.
w.m. Knott DC/SR$ says its okay @him.

8/27/63
Security Aproval for Project I, A, cand O Phase 3"

8/30/63
Security. APPROVAL for "CORAL CLEARANCE. OVER HEAD
9/14/43"
Special IntelligENCE CLEACANCE

0002369
SECRET
Christ-12
9/2/63
Sheet
Investigative Iransmittal
9/26/63
approved for "domestic assignment in D. Co. @R+D. sinalysis 00's+7!
10/4/63
reports review of case under "program recorded inthe 00's memo flo December 1962"
reports recommends;;
"No flag be issued
Ευνείορε:
SENsitive δούκες + Methods. 26 Oct 63 SAS memo date to C/TSD! → deals placement of sensitive source still in placence
Iring to M.G.. attention
SECRET

0002370
SECRET
Christ. 13
9/19/63
"reassignment, Change of SD and Transfer to vouchered funds."
JACK 3D = Service DESIGNATION, Sullivan يندdicates chan from "CF" (covent, frands) to "V" (Norichered represented to me that "CF" que unvoucherd. "Cost CENTER No. Chargeblε 4262-1000-1000" 
should Ask our questions Γ2: this form to Personnel
G5-16

70/27/64.
Clearance granted for cryptographic material "Briefing Statement"
9./10/64
Memes for Dir. Finance ze: Loss of Offical.
Ajuds by Conviscation Christ "$423.58"
Castro Confiscateal Christe was on assignment

SECRET
0002371
SECRET
Christ #14
for FE Division in 9/60 in Havana
"allatment number 1137-07169-5995"
2/16/65
indices. search request.
ENVELOPEΣ
"Pesssonal Information regarding a third party!"
 Chust reproduced. Apparently he was being entertained by a woman in Cubat it may have led to his anest.

12/22/64
request for Aging IO.
Age: 46
Height: 6'
Weight: 185
Εγές: Grzy
HAIC Brown
1/2/45
Clearance certif. to State
SECRET

SECRET
0002372 Christ #15
11/18164
SEC. Cert. to State

/12/66
Jaun A. Roshiguez 3000 SW 24 TERRACE, Miami, FIA says he was imprisoned.
Caswell."
1/16/65 SPECIAL CLEACANCE for Project RHYOLITE

2/13/65 RHYOLITE
... secrecy agreement - overhead recon.
12/13/65
Special ClEACANCE RH
4/14/64
ẸP project ACCESS termination.
overhead recon.
2/27/64
Clearance from Ε.Ρ.

SECRET
0002373
SECRET
Christ 1le
3/2/64.
IBID
3/11/64 EARPOP Agreement
3/1/67
Appointment - Lop Secret Control Offici
Εώνει:
1967 Agency Bekgid ck.
9/29/9 Reavesti process. shit

4/21/67
approval as emergency commiser.

10/12/67
ID request.
9/13/63
ARGON agreement
COROAJA
ΙΟΣALIST
1
OX CART
SECRET

SECRET
0002374
Christ 17
9/27/63
Request for entry of Christ for on "Domestic Cover list afterwhich he will be told to deny association
Military cover for operational purposes. (probably travel cover again)
4/30/63+
Christ "Reassignment and Change of service Designation "CF "to "CF"
Cost Center No. 3125-1990-1000
1/21/64
Cover assignment to us Army Els us Army Element, Joint Operations Group. for operational prispases. ref: request for cover (farm322)
Document entitled SECRET "Notification of Establishment of military Cover Backstop!"

SECRET
0002375
Christ 18.
1/22/68
Christ imprisoned @
Thornton J. Anderson
AKA Eustace H. Danbrunt
62067
WALTER E, SZUMINSKI ARA Edmund R. TASANsky.
DaleristinaS
2/3816. info. in SRS #3280
5/21/68
Security Violalion
63-168
EP.Clearance.

6/12/68
IBID
1/13/68
ID request.
12/19/68
"Jermination Understanding
6/19/69
SECRET
Outside activity Approval Granted

SECRET
0002376
Christ19
9/13/69
Secrecy Agreement

MEMOS RE: Telegram to
GUGA ENCONEously billed To Christ.

10/12/70 Application for Retirement
55 181-01-6133
6212 MAIDEN LANE, Bethesda
10/22/20
retirement
11
"V to V"
/9/70
letter from Helmo.
11/16/70
Honor Recomendation
11/19/70
groented
11/30/70
Resume
SECRET

SECRET
0002377
Christ 20
11/20/70
Standby Reserve Approval
11/9/20
ck. for DOD Industrial. Security Clearance.
11/24/20
Secrecy Oath; + briefing report
11/16/70
Os has no objection to merit award.
11/24/70
Zermi. Secr. Agrees
12/15/70
SEC. Approval for contract work.@ DEOVINCO
11/24/20
Revocation of Cryjet Clear.
1/4/71
Cross reference to 607 44се.. "CUBAN Imprisonment OF CIA AUDIO TECH"

SECRET
0002378
Christ 21
12/18/70
"K"ck- internal name ck. "no record"
2/10/71
Clearance from DISCO
2/9/71
ENVEL:
Noone ck Rpt
1971 Agency Bckgid ch
4/13/71
mm ck Donna K. Coston.
-1/26/7