P.3 
180-10145-10233	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
FJC ① 3/24/78
9 C Hardway + LEAP
Prandall interview

1951 - joined, FE divrsin
junior desk 32.
11/55 - [Jakarta] [stat cover)

5/58. desk chief Indonesia

12/59

md/41 Staff off. FI / FE

9/41 [Botgo] until

Per Dc ID/5
6165

Staff in Station
(branch chinf coordi-
of foreign branches dont
intelligence of MⅠ)
C.O. for some outside
Work - one or two little ops.
Senior supervrson.
OTS

6/65 - Domes. Ops Dir
THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE
P.4
SEP 28 '98 10:46AM
19/700071-C.O. in DOO
operating in U.S.

5. FR (foreign iresources)
975: FOIA officer for DDO
presently in Information
Services Staff.

was not DCO's
first Pate Wheeler ]
Maraes Felekman Jin '64.
300 people there: 103.
didn't really know all
the people.
Station was spend out
over at least different
locations @ different]
[sevenrs.]
R was under fair force]
[cover]
R lived & worked awa
htary base!! (army or A.F)
R.
Mrces
1963 office moved to

Also Joint MI Staf
10.
P.5
SEP 28 '98 10:46AM
3
10
11/63 - living on Carlos
Moreo
[Cu(HU)]物10
En reporting to
staytion was divided
fry area (target) divisions.
China brainch.
Finance people
DOS+T office
SR. thenrent physical
LOCATION
to sufferent cover:
Sams SAPORT
LE SUPPORT & LOGISTIC
digimatic decrease in
# of CO's tween 61-65
24. 300 to 100 no personal
Iknowledge of reason
196.1 - [100] Co's guess)
1965-
(70)]
24
is in station co
snowladge all projects
Randall would know
Ragentis & MI operations.
all MI that they would
inform of - they often
dit
caught them
es
The to CORRECT
ANYTHING-R WAS brought thede tol

Glov
P.6
SEP 28 '98 10:47AM
UNSURE →
thinks would probably have to ClEAR As high
AS CINCPAC but & FamiliAR@proceedutes!
^
4
ALL CO'S
o's had
access.
TRUE NAME
they did maintain
file source
found
regestar for CIA+
MI Oxgents.
Cess would know all
DCOS
Chief of Oges if they
would true name too
in
form Crypto at file all stations do.
sonce index reported to the
- in some form.
کے
YES.
there had to be HQ
? approval befpre
? utiliging agent.
militaryli
there were written
e
guidlines from HQ
exceptions
سکه
NOT
targets included in
rgent bile saccess gagento
10.4.HIT
5
can't rember nature of
individual (201) biling
system on individuals.
card file would lead to
the Co if you got a hit.
CO would have en project
bile & part of it would
[be on personnel.
first time heard allega.
CHO was an
agent:

1975- FOIA barned
of allegations of assassi-
nation's books?
Wilcott:
remember him ve
as yemen denkaguly
se
EU CHU 7 quiet individual.
can't rememberany
Associations or simpof
Jack Randall was Chief
of finance
6
would
Wilcott could have
been disgersing arff &
probably have discussed
project expenses hissed
11/22/63:
mand told him news.
first heard it was THO
the was in manisse
stationed in Jajsan:
answer: 1975 FOIA duties.
never heard anything about
it in Jokyo.
