Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10332
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and, that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN
Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F.
Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case#:NW 88326 Date:
2025

NW 88326
DocId:32243298 Page 1

Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10332
RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 06/27/77
PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
DAY, CLARENCE J.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32243298 Page 2

DAY, Clarence OFFICE OF THE CLERK
Name of Employee U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
Address
1977
YEAR
BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR
Annual Sick
Leave Leave
Address

Phone Number 6 6
Position Titla ANNUAL LEAVE
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
6-27-77 CATEGORY
1.0
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
1.5
Position Number Level Step
Years Months
2.0

BALANCE
ACCRUED AVAILABLE USED AT CLOSE
THIS MONTH THIS MONTH THIS MONTH OF MONTH
DAY OF MONTH
Annual Sick Annual Sick Annual Sick Annual
Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave
Jan.
7 7
Feb.
8 8
Mar.
9 9
Apr.
10 10
May 11 11
June
4 88 12
July XXX 8 13
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.

S = 0.5 day annual leave CERTIFIED CORRECT:

= 1.0 day annual leave

0.5 day sick leave

S or = 1.0 day sick leave Employee's Signature Date Chief's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
0.5 day administrative leave

A or A = 1.0 day administrative leave Approved: Date
Clerk of the House
0.5 day unauthorized absence This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
U or U = 1.0 day unauthorized absence with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.
0.5 day leave without pay

1.0 day leave without pay
EXHIBIT I

NW 88326
Docld:32243298 Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen).
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Clarence J. Day 7/16/78

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
229-26-8374 Appointment

Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change

Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. of 95th
Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date July 7 19 78

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
(Type or print name and title of above official)
LOUISSSTORES, CHAIRMAN
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees; except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.
APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code ID

Benefits
Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of Payroll
(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for. Initiating Office or Committee
NW 88326
DocId:32243298 Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Clarence J. Day 6/27/77

Employee Social Security Number
Type of Action
Appointment

Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Staff Investigator $24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority H. Res of 95th
Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date June 28 19 77
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, múst
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
NW 88326
DocId:32243298 Page 5

MEMORANDUM DAY
1/27/77
TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

✓ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Signature of Employee 6-29-77
Date

NW 88326
DocId:32243298 Page 6

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515
Tom

I checked with
Tanenbaum on Clarence
Day, and recommend
* 24.000 salary
Jom H.
NW 88326
Docld:32243298 Page 7
NW 88326
Docld:32243298 Page 8

DAY
1/27/77

MEMORANDUM

TO: Louis Stokes, Chairman

FROM: Tom Lambeth, Acting Director

DATE: June 14, 1977

I recommend approval of Bob Tanenbaum's
request that Clarence Day be hired for his task force.

The hiring of Day will bring the number of investigators
on the JFK task force to four (4).

ffective 1/27/77
ok

NW 88326
Docld:32243298 Page 8
LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MEMORANDUM

TO: TOM LAMBETH
FROM: KENNETH D. KLEIN
DATE: JUNE 14, 1977
RE: CLARENCE DAY - INVESTIGATOR

It is my recommendation that
Clarence Day be hired as an investigator
for the JFK Task Force. His resume is very
impressive and his long career as a law en-
forcement officer certainly qualifies him
to be an investigator for this Committee.

Equally important were his re-
actions to the questions I posed to him. He
came across as an intelligent man who is well
versed in the law as it applies to the rights
of individuals, and he impressed me as a man
who would be a valuable member of our task
force.

APPROVED:
Robert K. Tanenbaum

NW 88326
Docld:32243298 Page 9
