JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 01/13/98
Page : 1

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10138
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 27-27A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: DIETRICH, DAN H. JR
TO: USA PERSONNEL SECURITY GROUP
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 06/13/67
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: FROMER, DAVID REED

LOCAL FBI (S) FILE CHECK

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: INCLOSURES NOT INCLUDED. RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 SEP 94

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 [44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88613
Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88613 Docld:34528551 Page 1

SECTION III - REQUEST TO CONTROL OFFICE
REPORT OF ACTION
INFORMATION NOTED 
SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON-
SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION
MAY BE CANCELED
SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO
HEADQUARTERS
19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)

INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO
CLEARANCE, REQUEST COMPLETION
OF INVESTIGATION.
PER
DATED

INCLS.
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURE

SECTION IV CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY
RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
NO RECORD
FAVORABLE

DATE 14 JUN 1967
MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21
PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.
FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER-
MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION
NAC NACI
BI OTHER
COMPLETED BY
USAINTC
DATE
DOSSIER NUMBER
13 Jn 67 5 64 58 81 37
21. REMARKS

a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873
(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.

b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE
RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.

c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH
AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

INCLS
n/c
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
DAN H. DIETRICH, JR.
LTC, AIS, CHIEF, JCOP-III
SIGNATURE
5400 1158 СОБ ПЕ

SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE
REPORT OF ACTION
FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF.
COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED
SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO
UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION,
RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24
HEADQUARTERS
RESCINDED PERTOPAAMESSAGE
DA 7651755 ATED TOMAY 66
PER
DATED
--REGRAFIED
ON 2 Sepqy
BY CO
TOI/PO
AUTH Para 1-00050D 5200.18
REMARKS
Regraded Unclassified When Separated
From Classified Inclosures
and Marked
"FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY - This Protective
Marking is Excluded From Automatic

INCLS TYRED NAME AND TITLE "Termination"
27
NW 88613 Docld:34528551 Page 2
SIGNATURE

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
AR 381-130
DATE 5 May 1967
TO: (Control Office) THRU: FROM: (Requesting Agency)
DCSOPS
USAINTC USA/PSG
ATTN: OPS III (Mr. Burwasser)
Fort Holabird, Md.
(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY. to which results are to be sent, if known-by-
requester)
CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.
U.S. Army Personnel Security Group
Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219
ATTN: Adjudications Division DOSSIER NO. OPENING DATE
REMARKS
REC'D 7129 ICOP II

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and
middle names) 2. ALIAS(ES), MAIDEN NAME 3. SERVICE/SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

FROMER, David Reed None 564-58-8137
4. DATE OF BIRTH
(Day, Month, Year) 5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country) 6. GRADE AND POSITION
21 July 1942 Chicago, Illinois Registrant
7. REQUESTED ACTION
INVESTIGATION VALIDATION RECORDS CHECK
8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION: 9. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
NAC NACI BI OTHER (Explain in Item 15) TOP SECRET SECRET CONFIDENTIAL
10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR: b. FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
11. JUSTIFICATION c. INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
d. OTHER (Explain in Item 15)
12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:
NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION
UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION
INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15
13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom) 14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE
EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE
15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.)

Request that Headquarters and Local FBI (S) file checks be conducted on SUBJECT'S
parents.

"Request this investigation be expedited as determination under AR 604-10 is
being delayed at Department of the Army pending results".

REGRADIFIED
ON 2 Sepqy
BY CO
TOI/PO
AUTH Para 1-00050D 5200.18
INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE DATE
Dossier 564588137
re SUBJECT JB FINNEGAN
COL
AIS
SECTION II CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED
ITEMS
ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.
INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE DATE
272
Regraded UNA
when separat
DA
FORM 2784
APR 66
NW 88613 Docld:34528551 Page 3
