Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
B8613 Date: 03-18-2025
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
Date : 12/10/97
Page : 1

AGENCY: CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10329
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC640653W-PAGE 71

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : CO 165TH MI CO FKFT GER
TO: CO 66TH MI GROUP MUNICH GER
TITLE: MEMO
DATE : 02/10/72
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS : KAMINSKI, HANS D

INCIDENT OF POSSIBLE CI INTEREST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

NW 88613 Docld:34530625 Page 1

IMMEDIATE C/C LOG NR
0466
DO UUFTD
E UUFTE1334 040115
0091100Z FEB 72
FM CO 165TH MI CO FRANKFURT GER//AEUTMI-F-CE//
TO CO 66TH MI GROUP MUNICH GER//AEUTHI-OP-CE//
BT
AEUTMI-F-C
SUBJ: INCIDENT OF POSSIBLE CI INTEREST
B
226183
AVED
341115

1. AT 1100 HOURS, 1 FEB 7, LT HA GOOD, HQ, 66TH USA ARTILLERY
DETACHMENT, SOEST (MC 3813), FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (FRG)
CONTACTED THE DUESSELDORF FIELD OFFICE TO REPORT AN INCIDENT OF
AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON ATTEMPTING TO SOLICIT OFFICIAL INFORMATION
FROM A MEMBER OF C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY DETACHMENT, DAHLEN
(LC 8424), FRG.

2. LT KULESZA, COMMANDING OFFICER, C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY
DETACHMENT, STATED THAT HE WAS INFORMED BY A MEMBER OF HIS UNIT
THAT AN ATTEMPT TO SOLICIT OFFICIAL INFORMATION HAD TAKEN PLACE
IN DAHLEN ON 31 JAN 72. KULESZA WAS ABLE TO DETERMINE THAT
THREE OR MORE MEMBERS OF HIS UNIT HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY THE SAME
PERSON IN THE AREA IN AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION.

3. THE FOLLOWING LISTED INDIVIDUALS OF C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY
PAGE 2 UUF E1334
DETACHMENT WERE APPROACHED BY THE UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL:

A. PFC HELD, PFC, 47-4-6972.
B. PHILLIP MAY, PFC, 44-48-481, CUSTODIAL AGENT.
C. STEPHEN R. WILSON, SP4, 167-40-2332, CLERK.
D. M. CREED, SP4, 14-4-474, GUARD.

4. ALL LISTED MEMBERS OF C TEAM HAVE BEEN INTERVIEWED BY SA'S
OF DUESSELDORF FIELD OFFICE.

5. A DESCRIPTION OF THE INDIVIDUAL SOLICITING THE INFORMATION IS
AS FOLLOWS:

A. NAME: JOHN DEE JAY AKA: JOHN DEE JAY AKA: JOHN
B. OCCUPATION: DISC JOCKEY AT THE LORD NELSON BAR, SOEST
C. HEIGHT: SIX FEET
D. WEIGHT: 190 POUNDS
E. BUILD: SLIGHT
F. HAIR: BLACK WITH LONG SIDEBURNS
G. DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS: NONE

6. ATTEMPTS ARE CURRENTLY BEING MADE THROUGH GERMAN CHANNELS TO
OBTAIN POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION OF JOHN DEE JAY.

7. JOHN DEE JAY SPEAKS RUSSIAN, GERMAN, SPANISH AND ENGLISH. HE
HAS EXPRESSED PRO EAST SENTIMENTS AND HAS SAID HE HAD BEEN TO
PAGE 3 UUF E1334
MOSCOW, USSR, WHERE HE LEARNED TO SPEAK ENGLISH. HE CLAIMED TO
HAVE A COUSIN OR NEPHEW WHO IS A MAJOR IN THE GERMAN DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (GDR) ARMY. HE ALLEGEDLY TRAVELS FREQUENTLY TO THE EAST
AND HAS EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO RETURN THERE TO LIVE BECAUSE HE
HATED THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY. HE IS EXTREMELY KNOW-
LEDGABLE ABOUT THINGS PERTAINING TO THE MILITARY. HE KNEW THE
EXACT DEPARTURE TIME, LOCATION, INTERMEDIATE STOPS, AND FINAL
DESTINATION OF A RECENT CONVOY WHOSE MISSION WAS TO EXCHANGE
WARHEADS AT SASCOM UNITS. JOHN DEE JAY ASKED
M. CREED,
IDENTIFIED IN PARA 4 TO BRING HIM SOME ARMOR AND ARMY BOOKS. ALL
THE ARMY BOOKS, JOHN, WANTED WERE SOME ARMY STORIES, NOTHING ABOUT NORAD OR
SANRAS (SPECIAL AMMUNITION RECOGNITION AND AUTHENTICATION
SYSTEM).

8. JOHN DEE JAY MENTIONED AN ASSOCIATION (NO FURTHER IDENTIFIED)

9. IHSSG (USAF) FNU ALEXANDER, SECTION NCOIC, HOPSTEN (NCA), FRG,
WHO WORKS AS A SECURITY SERGEANT AT THE USAF MESA SITE HERE.
SASCOM HEADQUARTERS, FRANKFURT GER AND THE OSI
WERE BRIEFED ON 8 FEB 72.

10. INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

WILL CONTINUE AND THE
RESULTS WILL BE FORWARDED UPON RECEIPT.

GP-3
CP-3
1334

REGRADED
ON 2 Sep 94
BY CUR
CLASSIFIED
ISN: F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-613 DOD 5200.1R

NW 88613 Docld:34530625 Page 2
71
DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS,
NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.
DOD DIR 5200.10
CONFIDENT
