Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/18/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10005-10140
RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
'AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 1110-1117

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY
DATE : 10/05/66
PAGES:8
SUBJECTS: SCHEER, ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34530159 Page 1

ARMED FORCES SECURITY QUESTIONNAIRE

I.-EXPLANATION

1. The interests of National Security require that all persons
being considered for membership or retention in the Armed
Forces be reliable, trustworthy, of good character, and of com-
plete and unswerving loyalty to the United States. Accordingly.
it is necessary for you to furnish information concerning your
security qualifications. The answers which you give will be used
in determining whether you are eligible for membership in the
Armed Forces, in selection of your duty assignment, and for such
other action as may be appropriate.

2. You are advised that in accordance with the Fifth Amend-
ment of the Constitution of the United States you cannot be
compelled to furnish any statements which you may reasonably
believe may lead to your prosecution for a crime. This is the
only reason for which you may avail yourself of the privilege af-
forded by the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions
under Part IV below. Claiming the Fifth Amendment will not
by itself constitute sufficient grounds to exempt you from mili-
tary service for reasons of security. You are not required to
answer any questions in this questionnaire, the answer to which
might be incriminating. If you do claim the privilege granted by
the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer any question, you
should make a statement to that effect after the question involved.

II.-ORGANIZATIONS OF SECURITY SIGNIFICANCE

1. There is set forth below a list of names of organizations,
groups, and movements, reported by the Attorney General of the
United States as having significance in connection with the
National Security. Please examine the list carefully, and note those
organizations, and organizations of similar names, with which you
are familiar. Then answer the questions set forth in Part IV below.
Armed Forces. Your age at the time of such association, cir-
cumstances prompting it, and the extent and frequency of
involvement, are all highly pertinent, and will be fully weighed.
Set forth all such factors under "Remarks" below, and continue
on separate attached sheets of paper if necessary.

3. If there is any doubt in your mind as to whether your name
has been linked with one of the organizations named, or as to
whether a particular association is "worth mentioning," make a
full explanation under "Remarks."

2. Your statement concerning membership or other association
with one or more of the organizations named may not, of itself,
cause you to be ineligible for acceptance or retention in the

Organizations designated by the Attorney General, pursuant to Executive Order 10450, are listed below:

Communist Party, U. S. A., its subdivisions, sub- American Slav Congress. Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy.
sidiaries and affiliates. American Women for Peace. Committee for. Constitutional and Political Freedom.
Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, American Youth Congress. Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Six.
subsidiaries and affiliates, including- American Youth for Democracy. Committee for Nationalist Action.
Alabama People's Educational Association. Armenian Progressive League of America. Committee for the Negro in the Arts.
Florida Press and Educational League. Associated Klans of America. Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in
Oklahoma League for Political Education. Association of Georgia Klans. Philadelphia.
People's Educational and Press Association of Texas. Association of German Nationals (Reichsdeutsche Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights.
Virginia League for People's Education. Vereinigung). Committee for World Youth Friendship and Cul-
Young Communist League. Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch tural Exchange.
Abraham Lincoln Brigade. of Nazi Party. Committee to Defend Marie Richardson.
Abraham Lincoln School, Chicago, Illinois. Baltimore Forum. Committee to Uphold the Bill of Rights.
Action Committee to Free Spain Now. Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee. Commonwealth College, Mena, Arkansas.
American Association for Reconstruction in Yugo- Black Dragon Society. Congress Against Discrimination.
slavia, Inc. Boston School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massa- Congress of the Unemployed.
American Branch of the Federation of Greek Mari- chusetts. Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith
time Unions. Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt Defense Committee. Act.
American Christian Nationalist Party. Bulgarian American People's League of the United Connecticut State Youth Conference.
American Committee for European Workers' Relief. States of America. Congress of American Revolutionary Writers.
American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born. California Emergency Defense Committee. Congress of American Women.
American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in California Labor School, Inc., 321 Divisadero Street, Council on African Affairs.
Birobidjan, Inc. San Francisco, California. Council of Greek Americans.
American Committee for Spanish Freedom. Carpatho-Russian People's Society. Council for Jobs, Relief, and Housing.
American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, Inc. Central Council of American Women of Croatian Council for Pan-American Democracy.
American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in Descent (also known as Central Council of Amer- Croatian Benevolent Fraternity.
Europe. ican Croatian Women, National Council of Croa-
American Council for a Democratic Greece, formerly tian Women) Dai Nippon Butoku Kai (Military Virtue Society of
known as the Greek American Council; Greek Japan or Military Art Society of Japan).
American Committee for National Unity. Central Japanese Association (Beikoku Chuo Nippon Daily Worker Press Club.
American Council on Soviet Relations. jin Kai). Daniels Defense Committee.
American Croatian Congress. Central Japanese Association of Southern California. Dante Alighieri Society of Betimeen 1935 and 1940).
American Jewish Labor Council. Central Organization of the German-American Na- Dennis Defense Committee.
American League Against War and Fascism. tional Alliance (Deutsche-Amerikanische Einheits Detroit Youth Assembly.
American League for Peace and Democracy. front). East Bay Peace Committee.
American National Labor Party. Cervantes Fraternal Society. Elsinore Progressive League.
American National Socialist League. China Welfare Appeal, Inc. Emergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees
American National Socialist Party. Chopin Cultural Center. (founding body of the North American Spanish Aid
American Nationalist Party. Citizens Committee to Free Earl Browder. Committee).
American Patriots, Inc. Citizens Committee for Harry Bridges. Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War.
American Peace Crusade. Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side (Neu
American Peace Mobilization. York City). Families of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims.
American Poles for Peace. Citizens Emergency Defense Conference. Families of the Smith Act Victims,
American Polish Labor Council. Citizens Protective League. Federation of Italian. War Veterans in the U. S. A.,
American Polish League. Civil Liberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh. Inc. (Associazione Nazionale Combattenti Italiani,
American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organiza Federazione degli Stati Uniti d' America).
United American Spanish Aid Committee). tions, including Civil Rights Congress for Texas. Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society.
American-Russian Fraternal Society. Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Florida Press and Educational League.
American-Russian Institute, New York (also known Congress of New York. Frederick Douglass Educational Center.
as the American Russian-Institute for Cultural Re Columbians. Freedom Stage, Inc.
lations with the Soviet Union). Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola. Friends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neuen
American Russian Institute, Philadelphia. Comite Pro Derechos Civiles. Deutschlands).
American Russian Institute of San Francisco. Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland. Friends of the Soviet Union.
American Russian Institute of Southern California, Committee to Aid the Fighting South. Garibaldi American Fraternal Society.
Los Angeles. Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of George Washington Carver School, New York City.
Pittsburgh's Political Prisoners. German. American Bund / Amerikadeutscher Volks.

DD FORM 98 Jun
PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS RE OBSOLETE (for Army use). Page 1
NW 88613" Docld:34530159 Page 2

German American Republican League. Michigan Council for Peace. -torriquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans United).
German American Vocational League (Deutsche Michigan School of Social Science. Quad City Committee for Peace.
Amerikanische Berufsgemeinschaft) Nanka Teikoku Gunyudan (Imperial Military Friends Queensbridge Tenants League.
Guardian Club. Group or Southern California War Veterans).
Harlem Trade Union Council. National Association of Mexican Americans (also Revolutionary Workers League.
Hawaıı Civil Liberties Committee. known as Asociacion Nacional Mexico-Americana). Romanian-American Fraternal Society.
Heimuska Kai, also known as Hokubei Heieki. National Blue Star Mothers of America (not to be Russian American Society, Inc.
Gimusha Kai, Zaibel Nihonjın. Heivaku Gımu confused with the Blue Star Mothers of America
sha Kai and Zaibes Heimusha Kai (Japanese Re organized in February 1942). Sakura Kai (Patriotic Society. or Cherry Association.
siding in America Military Conscripts Association). National Committee for the Defense of Political composed of veterans of Russo-Japanese War).
Hellenic American Brotherhood. Prisoners. Samuel Adams School, Boston, Mass.
Hinode Kai Imperial Japanese Reservists) National Committee for Freedom of the Press. Santa Barbara Peace Forum.
Hinomaru Kai (Rising Sun Flag Society, a group National Committee to Win Amnesty for Smith Schappes Defense Committee.
of Japanese War Veterans) Act Victims. Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee.
Hokubei Zaigo Shoke Dan (North American Reserve National Committee to Win the Peace. School of Jewish Studies, New York City.
Officers Association) National Conference on American Policy in China Seattle Labor School, Seattle, Was
Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense. and the Far East (a Conference called by the Com Serbian-American Fraternal Society.
Hungarian-American Council for Democracy. mittee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy). Serbian Vidovdan Council.
Hungarian Brotherhood. National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent. Seattle, Washington.
Idaho Pension Union. National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. Shinto Temples (Limited to State Shinto abolished
Independent Party (Seattle. Washington). National Federation for Constitutional Liberties. in 1945).
Independent People's Party. National Labor Conference for Peace. Silver Shirt Legion of America.
Industrial Workers of the World. National Negro Congress. Slavic Council of Southern California.
International Labor Defense. National Negro Labor Council. Slovak Workers Society..
International Workers Order, its subdivisions, sub- Nationalist Action League. Slovenian-American National Council
sidiaries and affiliates. Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico. Socialist Workers Party, including American Com
Japanese Association of America. Nature Friends of America (Since 1935) mittee for European Workers Relief.
Japanese Overseas Central Society (Kargal Dohn Negro Labor Victory Committee. Sokoku Kai Fatherlund Society)
Chuo Kut) New Committee for Publications. Southern Negro Youth Congress.
Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1940. Nichibei Kogyo Kaisha/ The Great Fuju Theatre). Suiko Sha (Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles).
Japanese Protective Association / Recruiting Organ. North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy Syracuse Women for Peace.
24alton) North American Spanish Aid Committee.
Jefferson School of Social Science. New York Ciry. North Philadelphia Forum. Tom Paine School of Social Science. Philadelphia,
Jewish Culture Sociery. Northwest Japanese Association. Pennsylvania.
Jewish People's Committee. Ohio School of Social Sciences. Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York.
Jewish People's Fraternal Order. Oklahoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners. Trade Union Committee for Peace.
Jikyoku Lin Kai (The Committee for the Crisis). Oklahoma League for Political Education. Trade Unionists for Peace.
Johnson-Forest Group. Original Southern Klans, Incorporated. Tri-State Negro Trade Union Council.
Johnsonites. Pacific Northwest Labor School. Seattle, Washing. Ukranian-American Fraternal Union.
Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee. ton. Union of American Croatians.
Joint Council of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc. Palo Alto Peace Club. Union of New York Veterans.
Joseph Weydemeyer School of Social Science, St. Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating in the United American Spanish Aid Committee.
Louis, Missouri. Canal Zone). United Committee of Jewish Societies and Lands-
Kiber Seinen Kai Association of U. S. citizens of Peace Information Center. manschaft Federations, also known as Coordina
Japanese ancestry who have returned to America after Peace Movement of Ethiopia. tion Committee of Jewish Landsmanschaften and
studying in Japan) People's Drama, Inc. Fraternal Organizations.
Knights of the White Camelia. People's Educational and Press Association of Texas. United Committee of South Slavic Americans.
Ku Klux Klan. People's Educational Association (Incorporated under United Defense Council of Southern California.
Kyfthaeuser, also known as Kyffhaeuser League name Los Angeles Educational Association. Inc). United Harlem Tenants and Consumers Organiza-
(Kyffhaeuser Bund). Kyffhaeuser Fellowship (Kyff also known as People's Educational Center, Peo tion.
haeuser Kameradschaft) ple's University, People's School. United May Day Committee
Kyffhaeuser War Relief (Kyffhaeuser Kriegshilfsuerk). People's Institute of Applied Religion. United Negro and Allied Veterans of America.
Labor Council for Negro Rights.
People's Programs/Seattle, Washington).
Labor Research Association, Inc. People's Radio Foundation, Inc. Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights
Labor Youth League. People's Rights Party. Congress of New York.
League for Common Sense. Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights. Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade.
League of American Writers. Philadelphia School of Social Science and Art. Virginia League for People's Education.
Lictor Society (Italian Black Shirts). Photo League (New York City). Voice of Freedom Committee
Macedonian-American People's League. Pittsburgh Arts Club.
Mario Morgantini Circle. Political Prisoners Welfare Committee. Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newark
Maritime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon. Polonia Society of the IWO. New Jersey
Maryland Congress Against Discrimination. Progressive German-Americans, also known as Pro- Washington Bookshop Association.
Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights. gressive German-Americans of Chicago. Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights
Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not con- Proletarian Party of America. Washington Committee for Democratic Action.
nected with the Minute Women of the U. S. A.. Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc. Washington Commonwealth Federation.
Inc.). Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, South- Washington Pension Union
Maurice Braverman Defense Committee. west Area. Wisconsin Conference on Social Legislation.
Michigan Cıvıl Rights Federation. Provisional Committee on Latin American Affairs. Workers Alliance / since April 1936/
Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of Maryland. Yiddisher Kultur Farband.
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC). Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home. Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc..

III.-INSTRUCTIONS

1. Set forth an explanation for each answer checked "Yes" U. S. C., Section 1001. You are advised, however, that you
under question 2 below under "Remarks." Attach as many will not incur such liability unless you supply inaccurate state-
extra sheets as necessary for a full explanation, signing or initial- ments with knowledge of their untruthfulness. You are there-
ing each extra sheet. fore advised that before you sign this form and turn it in to
2. Title 18, U. S. Code, Section 1001, provides, in pertinent Selective Service or military authorities, you should be sure that
part: "Whoever falsifies, conceals or covers up a ma- it is truthful; that detailed explanations are given for each "Yes"
terial fact, or makes any false statements or makes answer under question 2 of Part IV below, and that details given
or uses any false writing shall be fined not more than are as full and complete as you can make them.
$10,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both." Any 3. In stating details, it is permissible, if your memory is hazy
false, fraudulent or fictitious response to the questions under Part on particular points, to use such expressions as, "I think," "in
IV below may give rise to criminal liability under Title 18, my opinion," "I believe," or "to the best of my recollection."
12
17.3

Page 2
US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 0-607912 Page 4
NW 88613 D๐๕เล์: 34530159 Page 3
For Official Use Only

IV.-QUESTIONS

(For each answer checked "Yes" under question 2, set forth a full explanation under "Remarks" below)
1. I have read the list of names of organizations, groups, and move- 2.
ments set forth under Part II of this form and the explanation which Concerning the list of organizations, groups and movements set forth
precedes it. under Part II above:
a. Are you now a member of any of the organizations, groups, or
movements listed?
b. Have you ever been a member of any of the organizations, groups,
or movements listed?
c. Are you now employed by any of the organizations, groups, or
movements listed?
d Have you ever been employed by any of the organizations,
groups, or movements listed?
e. Have you ever attended any meeting of any of the organizations,
groups, or movements listed?
f. Have you ever attended any social gathering of any of the organ-
izations, groups, or movements listed?
g. Have you ever attended any gathering of any kind sponsored by
any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?
h. Have you prepared material for publication by any of the organ-
izations, groups, or movements listed?
i. Have you ever corresponded with any of the organizations, groups,
or movements listed or with any publication thereof?
REMARKS
YES NO

 YES
1. Have you ever contributed money to any of the organizations,
groups, or movements listed?
k Have you ever contributed services to any of the organizations,
groups, or movements listed?
I Have you ever subscribed to any publication of any of the organ-
izations, groups, or movements listed?
m. Have you ever been emploved by a foreign government or any
agency thereof?
n Are you now a member of the Communist Party of any foreign
country?
o. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party of any
foreign country?
p. Have you ever been the subject of a loyalty or security hearing?
q. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organiza-
tion, association, movement, group or combination of persons
not on the Attorney General's list which advocates the overthrow
of our constitutional form of government, or which has adopted
the policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of
force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the
Constitution of the United States, or which seeks to alter the form
of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?
r. Have you ever been known by any other last name than that used
in signing this questionnaire?
I refuse to answer these questions
YES NO
bercuse the viokte my rights granted
to me wonder the First, Fifth, and
Fourteenth Amendments to the us
Constitution.

REMARKS (Continued)
Page 3
NW 88613 Docld:34530159 Page 4

REMARKS (Continued)
Robert Scheer, born 4 April 1936 in Bronx, New York,
a registrant under the Universal Military Training
Act, was this date given an opportunity to execute
DD Form 98 and in my presence he refused to do so.

HYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC
CERTIFICATION

In regard to any part of this questionnaire concerning which I have had any question as to the meaning, I have requested
and have obtained a complete explanation. I certify that that the statements made by me under Part IV above and on any supple-
mental pages hereto attached, are full, true, and correct.
TYPED FULL NAME OF PERSON MAKING CERTIFICATION SERVICE NUMBER (if any) SIGNATURE OF PERSON MAKING CERTIFICATION

TYPED NAME OF WITNESS DATE SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

11.3
US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1961 0-607912 Page 4
NW 88613 อ่อยล์: 34830159 Page 5
For Official Use Only

STATEMENTSONAL HISTORY
INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all
answers. All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "None," so state. Do not misstate or omit material
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and
attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

1. (Print) FIRST NAME-MIDDLE NAME--MAIDEN NAME (If any)-LAST NAME

MR.
MRS..
MISS ROBERT (NMN) SCHEER
3. ALIAS(ES), NICKNAME(S). OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriage)
None
5. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year)
4 April 1936

D
 2.
X
CIVILIAN
4. PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS
STATUS
MILITARY ON ACTIVE DUTY
2828 Milvia St., Berkeley, California
PLACE OF BIRTH (City, County, State, and Country)
Bronx, New York, New York, USA
PLACE CERTIFICATE RECORDED
Bronx, New York
RACE HEIGHT WEIGHT COLOR OF EYES COLOR OF HAIR
Cauc 70" 180 Brown Brown
SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING MARKS
None
6. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS? ☐ YES XX NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS
NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? ☐ YES NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHRONIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? ☐ YES NO
ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES." EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20. IF THE

7. U. S. IF NATURALIZED, CERTIFICATE NO. IF DERIVED, PARENTS CERTIFICATE NO(S). DATE, PLACE, AND COURT
NATIVE
CITIZEN
X
YES NO

ALIEN REGISTRATION NOA NATIVE COUNTRY DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY
66f 1700

8. MILITARY SERVICE
ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U. S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY? ☐ YES ☑ NO IF "YES" COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION
:
ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF A U. S. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION? YES NO IF YES." COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GRADE AND SERVICE 'NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION
DO YOU INTEND TO BECOME
A U. S. CITIZEN?
YES NO
DATE CURRENT ACTIVE
SERVICE STARTED

HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY, DRAWING FULL PAY, FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUS?
IF "YES." COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
YES
NO
COUNTRY SERVICE COMPONENT FROM (Date) TO (Date) TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS-GRADE AND SERVICE NO.

9. EDUCATION (Account for all civilian schools and military academies. Do not include service schools)
FROM- MONTH AND YEAR LYΤΟΡΟΛ
NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL GRADUATE
GUTO POLATCE CLO nece to counters OD LOW 200 TU YES NO
DEGREE
Sep 49 Jun 53 Christopher Columbus High-School BronxNTYX X Academic
Sep 53 Jun 55 Queens College, Queens, New York X
Sep 55 Jun 58 The City College of New York, New York, N.Y. X B.A.
Sep50 Jun 59 Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York X
Sep59 Jun 1612ura University of Calif., Berkeтерство a nue

10. FAMILY (List in onder gruengparents apouse, guardians stepparents, Tloster parents, parents in law former spouse(s) spouse(s) (il divorced give date
and place), children, brothers and sisters, even though deceased! Include any others you resided with or with whom a close relationship
existed or exists. It the person is not a U. S. citizen by birth, give date and port of entry, alien registration number, naturalization certificate
number and place of issuance.)

RELATION AND NAME DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING
U. S. CITIZEN
YES NO
FATHER 25 May 1898
Fred Schee Po co mar Germanyrarusu rowicere Debersedia aug sbsu X
MOTHER (Maiden name) 24. Apr 1900
Tun
Ida Kuren 2860 Bronx Park East
Bronx, New York X
SPOUSE (Maiden name) Feb 1942
Anne Weills Eureka, Calif. 2828 Milvia Street
Berkeley, Calif. X
OTHER (Specify)
None

FORM
2174
NW 88613 Docid3452013 Page
6 PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE Official Antu Exception to Standard Form 86
-A
f the Budget June 1960

14. CHARACTER
CREDIT
12. brothers-and sisters
ENDS LIVING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES (List grandparents, first cousinc, eur
RELATIONSHIP AND NAME AGE OCCUPATION ADDRESS
aw, and other persons with whom a close relationshipxisted or exis
CITY
None

FOREIGN TRAVEL (Other than as a direct result of United States military duties)
T CITIZENSHIP
Lincles,

DATES
COUNTRY VISITED
FROM-
TO-
Aug 1960 Sep 1960 Cuba PURPOSE OF TRAVEL
Jan 63 Mar 1963 England, France, Poland, To learn to write
Hungary, Soviet Union Write
& Czechoslavkia
Feb 1965 Mar 1965 Vietnam, Combodie, Indonesia Write
13. EMPLOYMENT SHOWmployment you have had and all periods of unemployment)

MONTH AND YEAR NAME OF IMMEDIATE
NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER
REASON FOR LEAVING
FROM- TO- SUPERVISOR
Soring 
1952 Jan 1953 S. Kleins Unknown Christmas over
14th St., New York, New York
1956 1957 U. S. Post Office Unknown School
New York City, New York
Sep 58 Jun 59 Syracuse University Unknown
Syracuse, New York
Sep 60 Jun 61 University of Calif. Unknown
Berkeley, Calif.
Sep 61 Dec 63 City Lights Bookstore Mr.L.Ferlinghetti
261 Columbus, S.F., Calif.
Jun 65 Present Rampert's Magazine W. Hinckle
301 Broadway, S.F., Calif.

258 745LKE
DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? ☐ YES NO DO YOU HAVE
ANY FOREIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? ☐ YES ✗ ✗ ✗ NO HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? YES
NO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
112-28-1134

CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons living outside the
United States or its Territories.
CENAME
(List 3 credit and 5 character) YEARS STREET AND NUMBER
KNOWN (Business. address preferred) Guruere CITY STATE OR
TERRITORY
None
201
Ta
10
0580
51000
הגיע
נחמן
LKO
1,
Robert Avakian Berkeley Calff.
Devid Weion 301 Broadway San Francisco Calif.
Sol Stern 301 Broadway Sen Frencieco Calif.
Robert Truehaft Trushaft & Walker Oakland Calif:
Malcolm Bernstein Truehaft & Walker Oakland Calif.
For Official Use Only

NW 88613 Docld:34530159 Page 7

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM
THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE/FURTHER EXPLANATION?
YES
NO IF "YES," GIVE DETAILS
VOUC
20. REMARKS
See Remarks

allic o
CALSIC COTY
וארן
ITEM (#12) FOREIGN TRAVEL (Continued)

ID COA COTT
TATE LON
ΛΟΣΝ
0 х 10
Feb 1966 to Mar 1966: Vietnam, Combodia, Thailand and Japan X
SOBATICE -
Write
X
I refuse to answer questions 16, 17, and 19 on the grounds that they violate my
constitutional rights under the 1st, 5th & 14th Amendmente to the United States
Constitutionu

20 002 200 00
200 40 22 ערב
10:20 noeuc
SAORIK
Robert Scheer,sa registrant under the Military Training X
and Service Act, refused to complete DD Form 398 in its
entirety.

MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC
7: .
X
09:00

X
I CERTIFY THAT THE ENTRIES MADE BY ME ABOVE ARE TRUE, COMPLETE, AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN
GOOD FAITH. I UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM CAN BE PUNISHED BY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH
(See U. S. Code, title 18, section 1001)
DATE SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING FORM
5 Oct 1966
TYPER NAME NAME AND ADDRESS OF WITNESS
MYRON K. HAYASHIDA, 1/LT, AGC
1515 Clay St., Oakland, California SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

21. THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTIGATION
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (top secret, secret, etc.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS
100
I.J FLET raze
000
