Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025
1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 11/04/98
Page : 1
AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10168
RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC678001R - PAGES 1420-1431 & 1436-1446

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USAF - OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
FROM : ROBERT H. WAYLAND, JR. COL
TO : 
TITLE: PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
DATE : 10/24/69
PAGES: 23
SUBJECTS: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION - CUSTOMS VIOLATION
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/08/95
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY USAF
COMMENTS: COORDINATION WITH USAF HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND DETERMINED RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 13 MAY 96. CLOSING STATEMENT ATTACHED WITH POSTPONEMENTS SECTION(B)3.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 1

TITLE C C
PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, FR 35859, SSAN: 513-10-4236
C
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE BY
JOSEPH A. CICCONE, SA mp
PERIOD
STATUS OFFICE OF ORIGIN 1 - 9 October 1969
PENDING OSI District 7 REPORT MADE AT FILE NR.
OSI District 7 07D18-1
CHARACTER DATE
CUSTOMS VIOLATION OCT 24 1969
REFERENCE
ROI, OSI District 45, 17 October 1969
SYNOPSIS

Permission to interview WERBELL granted by IRS. Review of air and surface
shipment records, Eglin AFB, FL, failed to disclose any information pertinent
to this investigation. WERBELL interviewed by IRS. During interview WERBELL
advised that firearms shipped to him by SUBJECT in April 1969 were obtained
by him (WERBELL) in Vietnam and registered during amnesty period, however,
no authorization was obtained to import these firearms. WERBELL stated that
majority of firearms currently being held at Eglin AFB were sent at WERBELL'S
request by ARPA and authorized by PATTERSON, who thought firearms were for
AF museum purposes. WERBELL asserted seized firearms were sent by him to
Vietnam after receiving State Department approval and were to be returned to
SIONICS by Air Force. No authorization for this action was obtained by WERBELL.
WERBELL advised that firearms which were not sent by him to Vietnam, and which
were seized at Eglin AFB, were sent to SUBJECT for use in Air Force museums and
that, to WERBELL's knowledge, Forms 6 were not filed on any of the seized fire-
arms.

DISTRIBUTION SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED (AFR 124-4)
FILE STAMP
Comdr, Eglin AFB, FL 2 WITHIN USAF Reviewed By AFOSI
(Action)(w/atch) This is a privileged document under military For Public Disclosure
law. This report may not be reproduced or
given additional dissemination except as In Accordance With
Dir OSI (w/atch) 2 authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is JFKARCA, 1992
classified see also, AFR 205-1.
APPROVED 14 AUG 95
ATFC(IRS) Atlanta, GA 1
(Info) (w/o atch) 1420
OSI District 6 (w/atchs) 2 ROBERT H. WAYLAND Jr, Col, USAF
Commander
File (w/atch) 2

OSI FORM 6 PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED. GPO: 1965-758-092
MAY 62
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 2
07D18-1
DETAILS:
1. On 1 October 1969, Investigator WILLIAM C. GOODMAN Alcohol, Tobacco and Fire-
arms Control Division, IRS, Pensacola, FL, was interviewed by SA WILLIAM D. DIXON.
GOODMAN advised that as of that date, he had not received any additional information
concerning the matter under investigation. GOODMAN was requested to determine if
IRS would object to an interview of MITCHELL L. WERBELL III by OSI. GOODMAN advised
that he would query his higher headquarters regarding the request, and subsequently,
GOODMAN advised that he had spoken to his supervisor in the Atlanta office and that
his agency had no objection to an interview of WERBELL, Vice-President and Director
of Research and Development of Sionics.

2. On 8 Oct 69 Mr. SHELLEY F. REEVES, CS-8, SSAN 261-50-7220, Shipment Planner,
3201st Trans Sq., EAFE, FL, advised that it was possible for a shipment to arrive
at Eglin AFB without any paperwork, such as a Government Bill of Lading (GBL);
however, if such shipment arrived by military air, it should be listed on the
manifest of the aircraft involved. REEVES added that the Air Transportation Section
is required to keep copies of aircraft manifests for one year.

3. On 9 Oct 69 EUGENE D. LAWRENCE, MSgt, FR 407-38-0038, Director of Air Trans-
portation, 3201st Trans Sq, EAFB, FL, made available to the writer copies of all
military air shipment manifests for the months of May, June and July 1969. Re-
view of these manifests disclosed no information pertinent to this investigation.
:
v. On 9 Oct 69, NAOMI J. KING, GS-5, Freight Rate Assistant, 3201st Trans Sq,
EAFB, FL, made available to the writer her log of all shipments received from
Charleston, SC, from Jan 69 through Jul 69. Review of all GBL's concerning these
shipments failed to disclose any information pertinent to this investigation.

5. On 9 Oct 69, WILLIAM N. GRIFFIN, Assistant Regional Commissioner, Alcohol,
Tobacco andFirearms Tax Division, Internal Revenue Service, Southeast Region,
Atlanta, GA, advised by letter that WERBELL had been interviewed by agents of his
office on 16 Sep 69. GRIFFIN advised in summary as follows:

WERBELL stated the ll Title II firearms shipped by SUBJECT to SIONICS on or
about 11 April 1969 were obtained by WERBELL in Vietnam and registered during
the amnesty period. SIONICS did not apply for or receive authorisation to import
these firearms. The Title II firearms received at Eglin AFB, FL during June 1969
were sent at WERBELL's request by ARPA. Col PATTERSON authorized the shipments
after WERBELL had told PATTERSON that the firearms were for AF museum purposes.
WERBELL reviewed the list of firearms currently being held by OSI at Eglin AFB,
FL, and advised that all the sound suppressors, except the one marked HELE 4A,
and the Winchester Model 52, Cal .22 rifle, SN 69494B, were the property of
SIONICS and were taken or sent to Vietnam by him after approval of the shipment
by the State Department. According to WERBELL, the Air Force agreed to send the
weapons to Vietnam and return same to SIONICS, however, he could not produce
written authorization for this action. WERBELL said the remainder of the fire-
arms were to be sent to SUBJECT for the purpose of Air Force museum displays.
2 1421 Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 3
07D18-1
DETAILS (Cont'd)

WERBELL related that Forms 6 were not filed on any of the firearms either by him
or to his knowledge by anyone else. WEHBELL concluded that prior to the passing
of the Gun Control Act of 1968, the procedures used for exporting and importing
of the firearms was the acceptable method with the Statement.

A copy of the letter summarized, with inclosures, is attached to this report of
investigation.
ATTACHMENTS:
1. Reproduced copy of letter addressed to Col WAYLAND from WILLIAM N. GRIFFIN,
Assistant Regional Commissioner, Southeast Region, IRS, US Treasury Department,
dated 7 Oct 69, with inclosures (Letter report of Special Investigator CHARLES B.
STANFILL, Atlanta, GA, dated 22 Sep 69, with Report of Interview of MITCHELL L.
WERBELL III).
2. ROI, OSI District 7, 29 Jul 69
3. ROI, OSI District 51, 2 Sep 69
4. ROI, OSI District 7, 24 Sep 69
5. ROI, OSI District 50, 9 Oct 69
6. ROI, OSI District 5, 14 Oct 69
7. ROI, OSI District 45, 17 Oct 69

FOR COMMANDER, EGLIN AFD, FL
FOR DIR OSI

Copy of Attachment 1

FOR OSI District 6

Copy of Attachments 1 through 7.

FOR FILE

Copy of Attachment 1
PENDING
3 1422 Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance with n
JFKARCA, 1992
14. AUG 95
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 4
Address any reply to: P.O. Box 926, Atlanta, Ga. 30301
US Treasur Department

Regional Commissiomer
Internal Revenue Service
Southeast Region
Date: OCT 7 1969 In reply refer to:
ATEA: AWS:rs

Dear Colonel Wayland:

Colonel Robert H. Wayland, Jr., USAF
Department of the Air Force
OSI District 7 (HQ USAF)
Patrick Air Force Base, Florida 32925
90fr69
This refers to your letter of September 26, 1969 transmitting OSI Report
of Investigation by Special Agent Grover C. Ayers, Jr. concerning Lt
Col Paul Arnold Marriott.

We are attaching for your information a report submitted by Special
Investigator Charles E. Stanfill concerning this investigation... Further
reports will be forwarded when received.

Your cooperation is appreciated.

Enclosure
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 5
Sincerely yours,

William N.. Griffin
Assistant Regional Commissioner
(Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms)

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95
September 22, 1969

Chief Special Investigator
Atlanta, Georgia

Special Investigator Charles R. Stanf 111
Atlanta, Georgia

Ga. L. I. 69-112 - Fle. S. 1. 1176(F)、

This report relates to an investigation conducted at the request of
Chief Special Investigator, Jacksonville, Florida. The Office of
Special Investigations, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, in conjunction
with Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division, Pensacola, Florida, is
currently conducting an investigation, regarding the alleged illegal
Importation of certain Title II firearms by Lt. Col. Paul A. Marriott.

On September 16, 1969, Special Investigator in Charge Arbie R. Odom, Jr.
and I interviewed Mitchell L. VerBall III, at his residence in Powder
Springs, Georgia. In answer to questions asked by Florida, we obtained
the following informations (1) The shipment of firearms shipped by
Lt. Col. Marriott on or about April 11, 1969, to Sionics, Atlanta, Georgia,
contained 11 Title II firearms. These weapons were obtained by Mr.
Gerbell in Vietnam and registered during the amnesty period. Sionice
did not apply for or receive authorization to import these firearms.

(2) The additional boxes of Title II firearms received at Eglin Air
Force Basa during June 1969, were sent at the request of Mr. WerBell
by ARPA, and Col. Patterson authorized the shipments after Mr. WerBell
told him they were for Air Force museum purposes. Mr. Werbell was
shown a list of firearms contained in the two boxea currently being
held by the OSI at Eglin Air Force Base and asked to identify any
belonging to sionics. Ha stated all the sound suppressors except the
one marked HELE 4A, and the winchester Model 52, caliber .22 rifle,
serial number 69494B, were property of Sionics and were taken or sent
to Vietnam by him. He stated these were taken over on approval of the
State Department, and that the Air Force had agreed to send them to
Vietnam and return them to Sionics; however, he has no written author-
ization. He stated the remainder of the firearms were given to him by
authorized persons, and were to be given to the Air Force to put in
museums.

Before Lt. Col, Morriott left Vietnam, Mr. WerBell told him he would
sttempt to obtain captured anemy weapons which he would send to Lt. Col.
Marriott for the purpose of museum displays.
1
1424
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
RayB
14 AUG 95
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 6
-2-

Lt. Col. Marriott told Mr. Werbell he thought the museum would be grateful
for them. Mr. Werbell stated he did not file any Formn 6 on any of the
firearms and had no knowledge of anyone else filing them.

Stonice is in the business of developing and maufacturing silencers for
sale to United States Military Unite and United States Allies. Although
there are apparent violations of Title II of The Gun Control Act of 1968,
it appeara from talking to Mr. WarDoll that on the part of Sionics, they
were unintentional. Mr. Warbell stated that prior to the passing of the
Gun Control Act of 1968, the procedure used in exporting and importing
the firearms was the acceptable mathod with the State Department.
Chaik & Stanfill
Charles E. Stanfill
1

Attachments: 14
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 7
1425
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95
Ga. L. 1. 69-112 - Fla. SI 1176(P)

REPORT OF INTERVIEW
:
With Mitchell L. Werbell III, on September
16, 1969, at 2:30 p. m., at his residence
at RFDI, Powder Springs, Georgia, by
Spacial Investigators Charles E. Stanfill
and Arbie R. Odom, Jr.

This interview was conducted in the presence of Sionica President Fred
N. Brown and Secretary-Treasurer Jo Florence. It was conducted in the
basement of Mr. WerDell's residence, which is used as a laboratory for
research and development for Sionico. Mr. WerBell is Vice-President
and Director of Research and Development of Sionics. Sionics currently
hold Federal Firearms License Number 58-3742, which expires March 31,
1970, as a manufacturer of firearms other than destructive devices, and
License Number 58-6156 which expires May 18, 1970, as an importer of
firearms other than destructive devices. Sionics is also holder of
Special Occupational Tax Stamp Return Number 1-58611 169 85398, an a
Claas 1 Manufacturor (Firearms), and Return Number 1-58611 169 85399,
as a Class 1 Importor (Firearms), both issued for the period beginning
July 1, 1969. Sionics was also holder of a Class 1 Manufacturer Tax
Stamp for the previous year, however, they did not hold an Importers
Tax Stamp. According to officials of Stonics, they were a registered
importer under the Munitions and Control Act, registered with the
State Department. Mr MerBell stated as follows:
1
(b) (3)
26 USC 6103
Mr. WerBell said he want to Vietnam in September of 1968 for the purpose
of demonstrating "Sound Suppressora" manufactured by Sionics. Ne stated
this trip is authorized by Mr. Stanford of the State Department,
Munitions Control, Washington, D. C., who also authorized him to taka
and send weapons and sound suppressors for demonstrations, however, he
has nothing in writing from them. He stated he took soms of these wespons
with him and sent the rest through the Air Force to Vietnam in care of
Col. Fagen. Mr. WerBell stated that in the course of his business and
travels, he was able to acquire 12 captured enemy weapons from the date
of his arrival through about November of 1968. The said those weapons
were given to him by General Dong of the South Vietnamese Army and by
other authorized sources. Ha stated he sont descriptions and serial numbers
of the firearms to Sionica in Atlanta, Georgia, with instructions to
register them, and then asked Lt. Col. Marriott to ship them to the
United States for him. He said he didn't think there was anything wrong
with this procedure because of the military involvement, and that he
didn't naka application for importation of the firearms for the same
reason.
1426
A
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 8
-2-

Mr. Werbell said he told Lt. Col. Marriott he could pick out any of the
weapons he wanted for the museum, and that he could take any that he
had picked from the shipment when it arrived at Eglin Air Force Bano.
Mr. Wornell stated he wanted the firearms for research purponen, except
for the Chinese Rocket Launcher, which he wanted for company display
purposes. He stated some of the fighting units of Thailand are being
furnished with captured enemy weapons, and that officials of Thailand
had expressed an interest in Sound Suppressors for sama. Mr. WerBell
showed us an AK-47 which had a Sionics Sound Suppressor attached. Mг.
WerBall stated before Lt. Col. Marriott returned to the United States,
he advised him that he would attempt to obtain other captured weapons
which he would give to Lt. Col. Marriott for the purpose of displaying
In a museum, and that Lt. Col. Marriott told him he thought the museum
would be grateful for them. He said he was hopeful at the time that
arrangements could be made to transfer any of the weapons not used by
the museum to Sionics, but he cauld not recall if this had been discussed
with Lt. Col. Marriott.

Mr. Werbell stated he collected numerous captured enomy weapons during
the next few months, and during that time he sent them in two cases to
Eglin Air Force Base in care of Lt. Col. Marriott. He stated he sent
those shipments through ARPA, and that Col. Patterson authorized the
shipments after arbell told him they were for Air Force museum purpoвев.
Mr. brBell again state'd he thought there was nothing wrong with this
procedure at the time because of the military involvement, and for that
reason did not make application for importation of the firearms. Mr.
Werbell was shown a list of firearmo currently under seizure by the OSI,
and ask to identify any balonging to Sionics. He stated weapons listed
were the ones sent by him to Lt. Col. Marriott and that all the listed
noiso suppressora belonged to Sionica with the exception of the one
marked HELE 4A, which is one he picked up that has been shot out, manu-
factured by a competitor. He also stated the .22 caliber Winchester M-52,
serial number 69494B, with Scope, serial number 31411, belonged to Sionics.
Ha stated the noise suppressors were manufactured by Sionice and either
taken or sent to Vietnam by him. He stated he could not explain why one
had no serial number without examining it, however, some of the earlier
models had the serial number on a front part which may have bean removed.
He stated the Winchester rifle was also either taken or sent to Vietnam
by him. Mr. Werbell stated as far as he was concerned, all the other fire-
arus were the property of the United States Air Force, although he had
hoped any that weren't used by the Air Force would be transferred to
Stonics. Mr. WerBell further stated he left wany firearms and suppressore
in Thailand, which are in the custody of Major Stevans, 46th Group, Special
Forces.
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 9
4
1
4,
147
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
RING
14 AUG 95
Ha stated he was waiting instructions from Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
Division before attempting to have them imported. He states most of the
firearms were taken to Vietnam by him, however, some are weapons that he
acquired there. (See attached list).

Mr. Werbell stated on his return to the United States ha made an inventory
of the firearms received from Eglin Air Force Base and found that he had
made several errors when copying the serial numbers from the firearms,
and thus some of the firearms had been registered on Form 4467's with
wrong serial numbers. (See attached list). Mr. WerBell stated the errors
wara mada by him, and they were made because of the condition of the
numbers and the difficulty in reading them. Mr. WerBell said he had not
notified the National Office of the errors, however, he would notify
thes now and ask instructions.
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 10
Charles Stapell
Charles R. Stanfill
1428
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992......
14 AUG 95
PAUL ARNOLD MARIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
.513 10 4326FR
DALIN AFR, FL
C
UNITED SI ES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
REPORT OF INVESTIGATION
REPORT MADE BY SA
LAWRENCE K. HARPER is
12 Nov 1969
OFFICE OF ORIGIN REPORT MADE AT STATUS RUC
OSI DIST OSI DIST FILE NO.
07D18-1
7
19

CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS DATE
ROI, OSI District 51, 29 Oct 1969 18 NOV 1969
XXXXXX DETAILS:
On 12 November 1969, KARL D. ACKERMAN (former Counselor for Administration,
United States Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand), 99 Victoria Drive, Atherton, California,
was interviewed by SA ROBERT J. NOVACK and the writer, and related substantially as
follows:

ACKERMAN had several conversations with Colonel WALTER ADAMS concerning the
practical problems of getting weapons, belonging to a MITCHELL L. WERBELL, into
Thailand from the Republic of Vietnam in order that WERBELL could put on a fire power
demonstration for the King of Thailand's birthday. At all times during these conversa-
tions, ACKERMAN assumed the weapons were WERBELL's wares, and that he had
brought them from the United States with him. With this in mind, ACKERMAN stated
that he instructed Mr. GERALD T. CARTA to annotate WERBELL's travel orders with a
Bangkok United States Embassy Funding Citation number. ACKERMAN said the citation
numbers were in a block of numbers belonging to the Embassy, and because he did not
feel he had the authority to issue WERBELL any other type of number, he issued him an
Embassy number. When ACKERMAN was asked if he knew PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT, he
said the name was vaguely familiar but could not recall anything further. When
ACKERMAN was asked if he knew EARLENE DOBBS, he stated that he did not, to the best
of his knowledge. ACKERMAN stated that his knowledge of WERBELL came solely from
ADAMS and other stories he heard around the Embassy of the fire power demonstration
to be given for the King. ACKERMAN stated he had no personal knowledge of WERBELL.

REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DISTRIBUTION SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)
This is a privileged document under mili-
tary law. This report may not be repro-
duced or given additional dissemination ex-
cept as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this
report is classified see also. AFR 205-1.
OSI Dist 7 4
Comdr, Elgin AFB, FL-
Action 2

DIR OSI APPROVED OSI DIST

ROBERT DEAN, Lt Col, USAP 1436

Chief, Criminal Inves Div

FILE 2
OSI 1 PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED. Reviewed By AFOSI
FORM
DEC 68 6b For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
B
14 AUG 95
D-18056
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 14
REPLY TO AFISIGA (07D18-1)
ATTN OF:

SUBJECT: Paul Arnold Marriott, Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK, Lt Col,
513-10-4236FR, Eglin AFB, FL
TO: Industrial Security Clearance Review Division (Mr. W. J. Scanlon)
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Administration)

Reference is made to the Directorate letter of 6 October 1969. Attached
for your information is a pending report of investigation which reflects
the results of further investigation by OSI.

L. L. FREE, Colonel USAF
Deputy Director for Operations
Directorate of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
1 Atch
OSI ROI, DO 50, 07D18-1,
dtd 9 Oct 69

Reviewed By AFOSI..
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
Underwrite Your Country's Might - Buy U.S. Savings Bonds
14 AUG 95
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 15

TITLE
PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, 513 10 4236FR
Eglin AFB, FL
CHARACTER
CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS
REFERENCE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
REPORT OF INVESTIGATION
REPORT MADE BY SA
JEROME J. CASTELUCIO
PERIOD
20-24 September 1969
OFFICE OF ORIGIN REPORT MADE AT
OSI DIST
OSI DIST
7
50
wt
STATUS
RUC
FILE NO.
07D18-1
DATE
9 October 1969
ROI, OSI District 51, 2 Sep 69
SYNOPSIS

Information re: WERBELL, as contained in files of OSI District 50, obtained
and set forth. CARTA advised WERBELL, during Jan 69, requested his assistance
in shipping various captured enemy automatic weapons and official equipment
from Saigon to Bangkok. WERBELL was traveling on a U. S. Invitational Travel
Order, without funding citation, authorizing space available travel only from
Bangkok to Saigon and return. CARTA stated WERBELL told him he had collected
the weapons while in northern sectors of RVN, with U. S. Army Airborne and
Special Forces units. Packaging and preparation of Transportation Control and
Movement Documents (TCMD) were prepared by U.S. Embassy, Saigon. CARTA did
not know why one TCMD reflected antique arms when contents were known to be
automatic weapons. CARTA received authorization and funding citation number
for WERBELL's shipment from the Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy,
Bangkok. This was only shipment processed by CARTA for WERBELL. CARTA did
not know of or process any shipments for SUBJECT and/or SIONICS, INC.

DISTRIBUTION SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)
DO 7 (Comdr, Eglin AFB- 4
Action-2)
This is a privileged document under mili-
tary law. This report may not be repro-
duced or given additional dissemination ex-
cept as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this
report is classified see also AFR 205-1.
DO 51 APPROVED OSI DIST
2

Dep Dir OSI (PACAF) 14 OS
ROBERT B. PRITCHARD, Lt Col, USAF
Deputy Commander
2
FILE Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992.
0
14 AUG 95.
OSI 6b PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED. D-18056
FORM
DEC 68
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 16
07D18-1
DETAILS
1. On 20 September 1969, Mr. GERALD T. CARTA, Staff Operations Officer, U.S.
Embassy, Saigon, Republic of Vietnam (RVN), was interviewed with the assistance of
SA RONALD A. CUNDIFF and provided the following information:

During early January 1969, a Mr. MITCHELL WERBELL, a senior officer in an
American firm (NFI), came to his office requesting assistance in shipping one or
two cartons of captured automatic weapons to Bangkok, Thailand. WERBELL stated
that he was a weapons expert and was in the RVN on invitation from the U.S. Govern-
ment to demonstrate some of his new weapon accessory inventions to the military
services of the RVN and Thailand. WERBELL indicated that he had just spent the
last 2-4 weeks in various northern sectors of the RVN, with U.S. Army Airborne and
Special Forces units. During this period WERBELL had collected various captured
enemy automatic weapons. He advised that he needed these weapons for examination,
in that he was in the process of designing a new automatic weapon that would far
surpass the capabilities of the best foreign made automatic weapon. WERBELL pro-
duced an Invitational Travel Order, issued by the USAF Air Attache, Bangkok,
Thailand. This travel order was approved by the Counselor for Administration (CFA),
U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand. This travel order authorized WERBELL to travel,
on a space available basis, from Thailand to the RVN and return. The travel order
did not reflect a funding citation, which is necessary to ship any large items
aboard a military aircraft. WERBELL stated that he had attempted to ship these
weapons aboard military aircraft stationed at Tan Son Nhut AB (TSNAB), RVN, how-
ever, because his orders did not reflect the necessary funding citation, he was
sent to the U.S. Embassy. WERBELL indicated he was going to use these captured
weapons in a fire power demonstration, to be held for the King of Thailand on his
birthday, which was on the following Saturday. WERBELL stated he was a personal
friend of the King and Queen of Thailand and numbered among his friends many high
ranking military and civilian officials of the Thai government. CARTA placed a
long distance call to the CFA, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand. The CFA advised
that WERBELL was expected in Thailand by the King for a weapon demonstration, to
be held on the King's birthday. The CFA was informed that WERBELL wanted to ship
one or two heavy cartons to Thailand. The CFA then gave CARTA the Bangkok U.S.
Embassy funding citation, with instructions to have same added to WERBELL's
travel orders. He then asked the CFA: "Do you know what he wants to ship?" and
the CFA replied: "Yes, it's okay". After this conversation the weapons were
packed, along with some items of official equipment, as identified by WERBELL.
Transportation Control and Movement Documents were executed and signed by CARTA.
The U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand, funding citation was reflected on these
documents. At no time did CARTA examine the contents of the boxes. CARTA iden-
tified the Transportation Control and Movement Documents reflected as attachments
1 and 3, ROI, DO7, 2 Sep 69, as the ones executed and signed by him. CARTA could
provide no explanation as to why one of the Transportation Control and Movement
Documents (Atch 1) reflected the contents as antique arms. CARTA stated that he
knew of no other shipments of firearms that had been processed by WERBELL. He
concluded that he does not know SUBJECT, nor has he ever processed any shipments
under SUBJECT's name or for SIONICS, INC.
2
1439
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95
1
NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 17
07D18-1
2. On 24 September 1969, a review by SA CUNDIFF of case file 50D24G-133, of
which WERBELL is the SUBJECT, revealed the following information:

WERBELL was in the RVN in an unofficial status, with the concurrence of ASD,
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, to demonstrate a noise and flash suppressor assembly for
the M-16 rifle, as well as other firearms equipment. He possessed no security
clearance. He was to demonstrate his equipment only in the RVN and was then to
return to the U.S. Upon his arrival in the RVN, he was given a Military Assistance
Command Vietnam (MACV) Identification and Privilege Card (MACV Form 6) for use
while in country. The application for this card was filled out by Col WILLIAM M.
FAGAN, Commander, Det 6, ASD, TSNAB, RVN. The card, to expire Mar 69, was