Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/20/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10139
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 372-373

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM: HAYASHIDA, MYRON K.
TO : USA INTELLIGENCE CMD
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE: 11/25/66
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID R.

INDUCTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94. INCLOSURES
NOT INCLUDED.

NW 88.6.13-DocId: 34528580. Page 1---

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSO
TO: (Control Office)
CG, USA Intelligence Cmd
ATTN: ACofS, CONOPS
PO Box 398
Fort Holabird, Md 21219
(AR 381-130)
THRU:
CG, USAREC
TE
ACTION
25 November 1966
ATTN: Security Officer
Hampton, Va 23369
(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by
requester)
FROM: (Requesting Agency)
CO, AFEES
1515 Clay Street
7 DEC 1961 Oaklend, California
CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

CHIEF, USAPSG
ATTN: Adjudication Branch
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

DOSSIER NO. OPENING DATE

REMARKS

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and
middle names)
FROMER, David Reed
4. DATE OF BIRTH
(Day, Month, Year)
21 July 1942
7. REQUESTED ACTION
8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:
SECTION I REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
2. ALIAS(ES),

None
5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country)
Chicago, Illinois
VALIDATION
☑ INVESTIGATION
3. SERVE SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
564-58-8137

6. GRADE AND POSITION
N/A
RECORDS CHECK
9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
NAC NACI BI ☐ OTHER (Explain in Item 15)
TOP SECRET SECRET CONFIDENTIAL

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:
INDUCTION

b. FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
c.
11. JUSTIFICATION
PAR 18, AR-604-10
INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
d. XXOTHER (Explain in Item 15)
12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON
NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION
REVEALED:
UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION
CONTEMPLATED
INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15
13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)
N/A
14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE
EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE
N/A
15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels,).
Request investigation of registrant in view of remarks made by registrant in remarks
section De Form 98 and Do Form 398. SSN: 4-42-42-204
Fr Iclosure
4-42-42-204
sctive
omatic
Headquartoro
animacion"
US Army Recruiting Command
Hampton, Virginia 23369
INCLS
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC
SIGNATURE
372
DATE
SECTION II CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
16.
NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED
ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
INCLS
INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.
DA
FORM
1 APR 64
2784
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
NW 88613 Docld:34528580 Page 2
SIGNATURE

SECTION III - REQUERO CONTRO
17. REPORT OF ACTION
INFORMATION NOTED
18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO
SUBJECT REANG CON
SENSITIVE DUTIES INVESTIGATION
MAY BE CANCELED.
HEADQUARTERS
19. REMARKS (If retuming corrected forms, state here)
PER
INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO
CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION
OF INVESTIGATION.
SIGNATURE
DATED
SECTION IV CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY
20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
NO RECORD FAVORABLE
DATE
30 MAR 1967
MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21
PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.
☑ FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER-
MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION
:
NAC NACI Bl OTHER
21. REMARKS
COMPLETED BY
USAINTC
DATE
DOSSIER NUMBER
29 Mar 1967
AA 81 40 20
a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873
(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.
b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE
RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.
AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH
AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.
C. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS
AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH

INCLS SUBJECT'S DOS-TYPED NAME AND TITLE DAN H. DIETRICH
sier and that of HIS
father D8 03 23 86
SECTION V ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE
22. REPORT OF ACTION
SIGNATURE
S.B.Bu
Lt Col
Chief of Operations III
AIS
DATE
FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF
COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED
UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION,
RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24
RESCINDED PER DA MESSAGE
DA 855, DATED 16 MAY-
INVESTIGATION ASINDICATED IN ITEM 24
23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO
24. REMARKS
Regraded ericing then Separated
37 BORA CO
T
Thiective
Marking is Lacl.ced from automatic
Termination"
HEADQUARTERS
INCLS
TYRED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURE
NW 88613 Docld:34528580 Page 3
: