198-10005-10018 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10005-10018

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: MULTIPLE
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 123

SUBJECTS: ARMS SMUGGLING, CUBA
LATIN AMERICA SECURITY
CUBAN SPONSORED SUBVERSION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 30. Assorted documents related to Cuban material support of
Communist subversives in Latin America.

JFK Records Review
Department of the Army EO 13526
Declassify Exclude Exempt
Authority
Refer To
Date 3/12/2015 By Kiner
Review Date

v9.1 12
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 1

ARMS SHIPMENTS
TO
AND FROM CUBA

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 2

SECRET
ARMS SHIPENTS

General: Arms smuggling is one of the "facts of life" in Latin
America and has been engaged in by dissident elements for many years..

Reports of Castro involvement in these activities have been frequent since
shortly after his seizure of power early in 1959. None of these reports
has ever been proven. With the arrival of large quantities of Soviet Bloc
arms in 1961, Castro imprisoned all U.S. arms in the hands of the populace
and made it a crime punishable by death to have possession of weapons of
U.S. manufacture. The U.S. arms furnished under the MAP to former Cuban
governments together with those collected by Castro provide the Castro
government with large stocks which could be shipped to subversive groups
in other countries. Identification of these arms with Cuba would be
extremely difficult.

TAB
1 Reports of Method of Operation

This Tab contains five items: (1) Two reports alleging arms
smuggling by fishermen and by means of food products shipped to
Latin America; (2) A report which indicates that a Cuban arms
cache discovered in Brasil to not of Cuban origin; and (3) Two
reports concerning a Cuban arsenal purportedly being used to
supply arms for an invasion of some Caribbean country or an
invasion of South America.
2 Reports of Arms Smuggling

This Tab contains a number of items reporting arms smuggling to
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Venezuela, British Guiana and
Brazil. Note particularly the top item in which the British
indicate the numerous reports on arms smuggling to British
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 3

SECRET
Guiana are without foundation and the second item which
refutes the report contained in the Life Magazine article
of 8 February.

SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 4

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 5

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
COUNTRY CUBA/LATIN AMERICA
SUBJECT POSSIBLE CONCEALMENT OF WEAPONS
FOR SHIPMENT TO LATIN AMERICA

DATE OF LATE 1962
INFO.
PLACE & UNITED STATES (4 FEBRUARY 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 6 -3
8
REPORT NO. TDCS DB23/653,152

DATE DISTR. 6 FEBRUARY 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES IN 62553
35871
FIELD REPORT NO.
SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
U.S. OWNER (C) OF A MARINA, FROM A FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE OFFICER,
FROM THE BROTHER OF AN EMPLOYEE OF A CANNERY IN SAN CRISTOBAL.

1. IN LATE 1962 A DAY-SHIFT EMPLOYEE AT A CANNERY IN SAN
CRISTOBAL, PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE, FOUND A HAND GRENADE WRAPPED

IN NYLON AND BEDDED IN SHREDDED COCONUT IN A CAN WHICH HAD FELT
UNUSUALLY HEAVY. (FIELD COMMENT: IT IS NOT CLEAR WHETHER THE
CAN HAD GONE THROUGH THE CANNING PROCESS AND HAD BEEN SEALED.)
AS A RESULT OF HIS DISCOVERY THE WORKER WAS ALMOST FIRED. ONE
OF THE MILITIA GUARDS AT THE CANNERY SAID THAT AMMUNITION AND

OTHER EQUIPMENT IS REGULARLY CANNED AND SHIPPED TO LATIN
AMERICAN COUNTRIES. A SPECIAL NIGHT SHIFT WORKS AT THE PLANT.
2. (FIELD COMMENT: AN UNTESTED SOURCE REPORTED IN EARLY
OCTOBER 1962 THAT IN JULY 1962 A STORY WAS CIRCULATING IN SAN
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L GROUP I
Excluded fram automatic
downgrading and
declassification
STATE/INRD ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC YATI USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00 FBI

REPCINCLANT INS EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM
5-62 1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (15-20)

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 6

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM
IN 62553
TDCS DB-3/653,152 35871
PAGE 2

ANDRES, AN ISLAND POSSESSION OF COLOMBIA, THAT A PISTOL HAD
BEEN FOUND EARLIER CONCEALED INSIDE A FROZEN CHICKEN WHICH
HAD BEEN PART OF A SHIPMENT RECEIVED FROM CUBA.)
3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCARIB, CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 7

SECRET
NO FOR CISSEM
An arms cache of weapons and ammunition recently discovered at the
Ligas Camponesas guerrilla training center in the interior of the
Brasilien state of Goias is believed by US Embassy and CAS officers to
be of Brazilien rather than Cuban arms, despite a Brazilien newspaper
suggestion that they were Cuben. There were also discovered about 125
copies of Communist publications including Che Guevara's well-known
treatise on "Querrilla Warfare". The training center was described as
organized according to that book. A confidential report on the discoveries
added that "members of the center went to be the Brazilian equivalent
of those who fought in the Bierre Maestra and so bring the hard Chinese-
Cuban type revolution to Brazil." Some 90 to 95 persons in the locality
are reported members of or sympathetic to the Ligas Camponesas activities,
but only 2 of the 24 for whom warrents were issued have yet been taken
into custody. (Am Emb, Rio de Janeiro 1122, 10 December, CONFIDENTIAL,
and CIA, Brasilia, IN 33026, 11 December, SECRET NOFORN)

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 8

INFORMATION! PORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.0. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/USSR/Latin America REPORT NO. CS-3/530,898
SUBJECT 1. Use of Soviet Fishing Boats DATE DISTR. 11 December 1962
to Transport Arms to Latin
America NO. PAGES 1
2. Belgian Arms Dealer in Habana

REFERENCES RD-W-2107
DATE OF Paras. 1 & 2: October 1962; RD-ACQ-01258
INFO... Para. 3: August 1962
LACE & Paras. 1, 2: France, Paris;
DATE ACQ. Para. 3: Spain, Madrid
Paras. 1, 2: 23 November 1962; 38957
Para. 3: 12 October 1962 FIELD REPORT NO.
BOURCE: 1. Paras. 1 & 2: An official French service; Para. 3: CC-1197,
2. Cuban refugee (F), a former employee of the Cuban diplomatic
service, who visited Santiago de Cuba in August 1962,
Appraisal of Content: 3.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. Soviet fishing boats, under cover of fishing Atlantic waters,
are transporting contraband arms to Latin American countries.
The boats are met outside the territorial waters of those
countries, and arms are transferred in small quantities.
On board the Soviet boats are only Soviets and a very few
Cubans or other Latin Americans who talk with those who
pick up the arms. The arms being delivered are of American
manufacture, including those obtained during the Batista
regime and those taken during the Playa Giron invasion. The
Soviet fishing boats also carry propaganda and pamphlets
containing, military instructions, the same type of material
being sent by diplomatic pouch from Mexico.
:
2. A Belgian in Habana who says he represents a Belgian firm,
has offered the Cuban Government any type and nationality
of arms for payment in dollars. The Belgian has made a
similar offer of sale of arms to a representative of an
anti-Castro group in Habana.

3. In August 1962 a fisherman in Santiago de Cuba said that
on several occasions he had been forced by the Government
to use his boat for transporting small groups of men, in
civilian clothes, and supplies of arms. He also knew of
other fishermen who had been forced to do the same. The men
and arms were carried to small islands or transferred to other
boats at sea. Such trips sometimes lasted as long as four or
five days. The fisherman did not know the purpose or final
destination of the men and arms.
STATE X ARMY X NAVY S-E-C-R-E-T
X AIR XINSA X OCR
X DIA
COAST GUARD X NO FOREIGN DISSEM
REPCINCLANT CINCARIB #
(Notes Washington distribution indicated by "X", Field distribution by "#")
FORM IN ARMA
DIVORT
2
GROUP I
Escluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
X FBI ΧΑΝΑ Χ
INIARMA

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 9

COUNTRY: CUBA

SECRET
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INFORMATION REPORT
CIA INFORMATION REPORT CS-3/532,138
26 December 1962
SUBJECT: IDENTIFICATION OF CUBAN VESSELS ALLEGEDLY PREPARED TO INVADE A
CARIBBEAN COUNTRY

DATE OF INFO: 28 NOVEMBER 1962
SOURCE: TRAVELING SALESMAN (F)
APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 3
HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ACCORDING TO TDCS-3/530,589, DATED 6 DECEMBER 1962, AS
OF MID-NOVEMBER TWO CUBAN SHIPS LOADED WITH PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT WERE SAMY
SAID TO BE PREPARED FOR AN INVASION OF HAITI. SOURCE SAID HE WOULD PROVIDE THE
NAMES OF THE SHIPS AND THEIR DEPARTURE DATE.

THE FRUCUBA AND THE FUNDADOR, CUBAN-FLAG VESSELS, WERE DOCKED AT THE ARSENAL
DOCKS IN CASABLANCA (HABANA) IN LATE NOVEMBER. THESE KEXS VESSELS WERE SCHEDULED
:
TO PARTICIPATE IN AN INVASION OF SOME CARIBBEAN COUNTRY.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 10
SECRET

ARMS SHIPMENTS
CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL
CUBA 19 January 1962
Stockpile of War Materiel for Latin 1 of 1
America (C)

Barly January 1962 Nane
Habana, c/a 7 January 62 DIJ
LUJ 316/36-6-62 DUJ
BUJ-43-62
1. Source reports an arsenal or stockpiling of war materiel at Casablanca, a
Wabma District, northeast shore of Hebana Bay, Mebana Province.
2. Source has heard this materiel is targeted for an invasion of South America.

OPNS DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEARS
BRANCH NTAVUS NOT AUTO
MATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
DOD DIR 5200.10
CONFIDENTI CONFIDENTIAL
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 11

Venezuela Uncovers Communist Arms Cacne-

The Venezuelan Government in a raid on a small
village near Caracas on 5 January uncovered a
large cache of arms and equipment which it claims
belonged to the pro-Castro Armed Forces of National
Liberation, reputed to be emerging as a para-
military arm of the Venezuelan Communist Party.
Several tons of explosives and large quantities
of hand bombs, arms, and ammunition were seized as well
as a nearby clandestine Communist radio
transmitter. (SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)
SOURCE: TDCS 533,071 (S/NFD); FBIS (OUO); PRESS
10 Jan 63
Page 9
DIA Intelligence Bulletin
(REVERSE BLANK)
SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 12

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 13

ARMS SHIPMENTS

12 Feb 63 "All the information available to Her Majesty's Government
and to the British authorities in British Guiana indicates that there is
no truth whatever in the continuing reports that arms are being shipped
to the colony from Cuba. Similar stories have appeared from time to time
in the past, but upon examination all have been found to be without
foundation."
(British Embassy in US to Reuters, AP and UPI),
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 14

N 12 February 1961

- Sightors:

shipe put out from Mariel (Cuba) only last week with holds
loaded with weapons sent by Castro to British Guiana."

A debrief report of a Cuban national who arrived at Port Everglades
on 25 January (90) Comitted time following statement:
I was told by an assistant only tracpactor for the Port of Havana
that on 14 January 1963 two launches caprained by a man with what
appeared to be an Italien accent had departed from the Le Coubre
wharf (Marana). manifest on ship indicated the dentination was
British Guiana. However, the ship inspector had been told by the
standards as the anast only two launches were loaded with ar
TD/00-K-3249316 DTG 2818052

3. The following information may refer to this arme shipment. Aen
tested CLA course, a member of the Communist Party of Colombia in
Call, has stated hat daring a conversation on 5 January 196) betwe
Amado de Jeans Zapata, member of the Department of Valia Regional
Committee of the Communist Party of Colombia (PCC), and P.1, Plata,
& Cuban deep-cover agent working with the seventh of January Worker-
Student - Peasant Movement (MOEC), in Colombia and Vonszuela, Plata
said that the MOLC ta not a ceal movement but rather a part of Latin
American concept which is twing assisted by Castro and the Cuban Govern
meat, to saidho has been in Call for one year on a ajocial assignment
from the top leadara in Cuba to nes that artos, propaganda, and instruc
tions from Vanesuela, originating in Cuba, get into the hands of the MOEC
groups

at for MOCC in due to arrive from
(Greats, capital of the Departe
In on the Venesuelan bordar and
en two countries.)
CLA Report Ref RD-0-2107
0
