198-10004-10076
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10004-10076
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/1963
PAGES: 123
SUBJECTS: EXAMINATION OF PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF POLICY AND
CONTINGENCY PLANNING ON CUBA
NATIONAL SECURITY ACTIONS ON CUBA
U.S. POLICY TOWARD THE CUBAN BRIGADE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 6. Indexed collection of CIA, DOD, DOS, and NSC reports.

JFK Assassination Records
Department of the Army EO 13526
Declassify Exclude Exempt
Authority
Refer To
Review Date 12/8/2015 By K. Emer
v9.i
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 1
2

NO. SUBJECT DATE
1 CIA Report No. CS DB-3/652, 924 17 Jan 63
(SECRET-NOFORN)
2 Memo fr McGeorge Bundy to NSC Exec Comm(C) 22 Jan 63
w/6 Incls: 1(S); 2(TS);3(S); 4(S); 5(S) and 6(S)
3 Drft Memo for NSC Exec Comm, subj: US Policy 23 Jan 63
Towards Cuba (TOP SECRET) (in dupe)
4 Memo for NSC Exec Comm, subj as above (TOP SECRET) 23 Jan 63
5 Memo for NSC Exec Comm, subj as above, from 23 Jan 63
DoD Rep on ICCC (TOP SECRET-SENSITIVE)
6 DepSecDef ltr to Mr Vance, subj: US Policy Towards 23 Jan 63
Cuba, Cy 2 of 6, Control #559 (TOP SECRET) w/1
Incl, Coord of Cuban Affairs Memo for NSC Exec Comm,
Subj: US Policy Toward Cuba (TOP SECRET)
7 Dept of State Memo for Mr Bundy, subj: Papers for 24 Jan 63
NSC Exec Comm Mtg, 25 Jan 63 (TOP SECRET)
8 National Security Actions on Cuba (Pending and Undtd
Closed) (TOP SECRET)
9 Memo to Mr Cottrell from Mr. Ford, subj: Examina- 4 Feb 63
tion of Principal Sources of Policy and Contingency
Planning on Cuba (TOP SECRET-SENSITIVE)
NW 50955 DocId:32276061 Page 2

SECRET - SENSITIVE
February 4, 1963
TO : ARA - Mr. Cottrell
FROM : S/P - John W. Ford
Subject: Examination of Principal Sources of Policy
and Contingency Planning on Cuba

In accordance with your instructions, over the week-end
I have reviewed the main sources of policy on Cuba. The problem
as I define it as follows:

The Problem:
Prior to the establishment of the Interdepartmental Coordinat-
ing Committee of Cuban Affairs, much work bed been done on Cuba,
both in the policy and contingency fields. The purpose of the
current exercise is to review and identify the main sources of
such policy and contingency planning in an effort to determine
if any of the work previously done will be of value to the
officers of your committee as we go forward with implementation
of the newly stated Cuban policy and objectives.

Sources of Policy and Contingency Planning:
The principal sources of policy and contingency planning
which may or may not be of value to the work of your committee ere
as follows:
1. The National Security Action Memoranda emenating
from the White House.
2. The Actions of the National Security Council.
3. The Eesia National Security Policy of the U.S.
(now avaiting final stages of formal elecrance
before presentation to National Security Council).
4. The Records
NW 50955 DocId:32276061 Page 4
SECRET - SENSITIVE

SECRET - SENSITIVE
- 2 -

4. The Records of Action of the Executive Committee
of the National Security Council as they pertain
to Cuba.
5. The Reports of the Sub-Committees of EXCOM -
curing the Cuban Crisis.
6. The Resolutions of the Organization of American
States and the Punta del Este Conference.
7. Public Statements of Government Officials, in
Particular Press Conference of President Kennedy
of September 13, 1962.
8. Meeting of Secretary Rusk with Foreign Ministero
of Latin America during Cuban Crisis.
9. Recently Approved New Policy Statement and
Objectives en Drews Up by the Interdepartmental
Comittee of Cuban Affairs.
10. Ouben Guidelines Paper.
(A guidelines paper es such does not exist on
Cuba os is the case in a majority of other
countries.)
CONCLUSIONS:
There are well over eight volumes of material concerned with
Cuba, perticalerly thet generated during the recent October crisis.
This review is nearing completion, and I en segregating particular
reports which may be of value to the members of your comittee
as we go forward with implementation of the new policy and
objectives. In the attached documentation, I have segregated
those National Security Council decisions and National Security
Action Memoranda which are carried es pending or closed in the
files of the Department of Stete. Where action on a particular
MSC decision or NASAM has been transferred to EXOOM, action
responsibility on these decisions would appear now to be within
the purview of your Coordinating Committee. From my review
to date,
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 5
SECRET - SENSITIVE

CRET - SENSITIVE
to date, it appears that all of these decisions call for actions
which have already been considered by your Committee. You will
note that in some instances cction responsibility on an NSC
decision or NASAM has been transferred to the Special Group
(Mr. Alexis Johnson).

Attachment
List of Pending and Closed
NSC and NASAM decisiona
concerning Cuba.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 6
SECRET - SENSITIVE

NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 7

SECRET
NATIONAL SECURITY ACTIONS ON CUBA
(PENDING AND CLOSED)
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 8

NSC Action No. SECRET Status
Substance
483 NSC 2422a Agreed that US policy toward (Pending)
5/5/61 Cuba should sim at the downfall According to
of Castro regime. files, out of
thia NSC direct-
ive grew a policy
paper, to be
handled different
ly from regular
guidelines papers
on each country.
As of 9/4/62, White House
was informed that action on this
NSC directive would be reported
in compliance with NSAM 181
which transferred certain NSC &
NASAM actions to special group
(Alexis Johnson).
483 NSC 2422d Importance President (Pending)
5/5/61 attaches to obtaining Action to be
adequate intelligence reported in
on Cuban military compliance with
capabilities. NASAM 181
(Johnson channel)
483 NSC 24226 Importance President (Pending)
5/5/61 attaches to publication Action trans-
in free world press of ferred to EXCOM
terrorist actions of
Castro regime, etc. and
to possible political action
to end current terror.
483 NSC 24228 Relations with Cuban (Pending)
5/5/61 Revolutionary Council Action trans-
should be improved. ferred to EXCOM
483 NSC 24221 Cuban refugees to be given (Pending)
5/5/61 refugee status; refugees in Action trans-
Hiami to be relocated; ferred to EXCOM
refugees to be eligible to
apply for travel privileges.
483 NSC 2422k Initiation of negotiations (Pending)
5/5/61 to enlarge willingness of Action trans-
other American states to ferred to EXCOM
join in action against Castro.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 9

NSC Action No. Substance Status
483 NSC 2622m USIA will expand L.A. (Pending)
5/5/61 program, but not initiste Action trans-
electronic warfare against ferred to
Castro, means of propaganda Johnson channel
should be madeavailable Per NASAM
to non-US groups. 4181.
483 NSC 24228 US military officers under (Closed)
5/5/61 general guidance to be completed action
prepared by Dept of State, as of 11/28/61.
would discuse Castro threst
to all L.A. with L.A. officers.
483 MSC 24220 Dept of State should prepare (Closed)
5/5/61 a report on a possible new S/P paper
juridical basis for effective "possible new
Basis for Anti-
anti-comunist action.
Communist Action"
7/24/61
483 HSC 2422p Robert Woodward's assumption Closed.
5/5/61 of responsibility of Task Force
on Cuba on announcement of
appointment.
483 NSC 24226 No US military intervention Closed.
5/5/61 now. Do nothing which would
foreclose possibility military
intervention in future.
483 NSC 24226 No naval blockade or airwar Closed.
5/5/61 against Cuba.
483 NSC 2422f Detailed study to be made Closed.
5/5/61 by CIA with other Departments Bissell memo to
of possible weaknesses and Achilles
vulnerabilities in elements 11/21/61 re:
which control Cuba. "Situstion and
Prospects in
Cube by Sherman
Kent 11/3/61.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 10
SECRET

HSC Action No. SECRET Status
Substance
483 NSC 2422h No separate Cuben military Closed.
5/5/61 forces should be organized DEF recomended
in U.S. Cuben natinels would to Pres.draft
be encouraged enlist in US program be
Armed Forces. terminsted
6/30/62 due to
codest results.
483 NSC 24225 No inmediate trade embargo Closed,
5/5/61 on Cuba. with President's
sction of 2/3/62
declering total embargo on trade
with Cuba with exception
medicine and food on humanitarian
grounds.
483 NSC 24221 Allience for Progress to be Closed.
5/5/61 strengthened. Weekly report
now from AID
ASAN 194 Policy Toward non-bloc to White House.
10/2/62 ships in Cuban trade (Action Pending.
US Government proposes to Action trans-
take with regard to ferred to
shipping to Cuba.) EXCOM.
NASAN 100 Contingency Planning for Pending
10/3/61 Cuba. Action trans-
ferred to
Johnson channel.
CUBA NASAM 431 US Government must have ready Closed.
3/11/61 a White Paper on Cuba and be Paper prepared
ready to give assistance to and translated:
Cuban Patriots in similar "The Castro
effort. Regime in Cuba"
9/61
CUBA NASAM #181 Eyes only Limited Distrib- Closed.
8/24/62 ution. Reporting to be through
another channel and handled
personally by Deputy USecy
Johnson (understand this authorized response
90 certain pending NSC Actions, 2 NASAMs thru
Johnson channel)
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 11

NSC Action No. SECRET Status
Substance
CUBA NASAM 196 Establishment of NSC Executive Closed.
10/22/62 Committee
CUBA NASAM 208 Cuba Overflights. (This Report Submitted.
12/6/62 Presidential directive
EYES ONLY approved an attached
Guidelines for the Planning
of Cuben Overflights, and
requested CIA to come up with
en estimate of the adequacy of
such a system of intelligence
collection to meet the criteria
set forth, on assumption it is
supplemented by energetic collection
of information by all other evailable
means.)
CUBA NASAM 213 Interdepartmental Organization Closed.
1/8/63 of Cuban Affairs - wich
responsibility vested in a
Coordinator of Cuban affairs
in Department of State.

NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 12
SECRET

TOP SECRET ATTACHMENTS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
34
January 24, 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. McGEORGE BUNDY
THE WHITE HOUSE
Subject: Papers for NSC Executive Committee
Meeting, January 25 at 4:00 p.m.

Attached are two revised papers "Summary of
Coordinator's Recommendations" and "United States:
Policy Toward Cuba" which are being transmitted to
members of the NSC Executive Committee for considera-
tion at the meeting of the Committee on Friday,
January 25 at 4:00 p.m. Also attached is a new page 8
for the paper entitled "United States Policy Toward
the Cuban Brigade." The other two papers transmitted
on January 22 remain unchanged and will also be con-
sidered at the Friday meeting. They are "United States
Policy in Cuba in the Organization of American States"
and "Current Problems Concerning Cuba."
Attachments: William H. B
As stated. Executive Secretariat
Copy No.
TOP SECRET ATTACHMENTS
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 14

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
(Prepared for the Meeting of Friday, January 25, 1963, 4 p.m.)

FROM : Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
SUBJECT: United States Policy Toward Cuba
United States Policy
On November 20, the President set forth the broad guide-
lines of United States policy with respect to Cuba in the
following words:
"As for our part, if all offensive weapons systems are
removed from Cuba and kept out of the hemisphere in
the future, under adequate verification and safeguards,
and if Cuba is not used for the export of aggressive
communist purposes, there will be peace in the
Caribbean. And, as I said in September, 'we shall
neither initiate nor permit aggression in this
hemisphere.'
"We will not, of course, abandon the political,
economic and other efforts of this hemisphere to halt
subversion from Cuba, nor our purpose and hope that
the Cuban people shall some day be truly free. But
these policies are very different from any intent to
launch a military invasion of the island."
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 15
SECRET

SECRET
-2-
Objectives
Accordingly, the objectives of United States
policy with respect to Cuba are:
1. Protecting the security of the United States
and the other states of the Organization of
American States (OAS) by assuring that
offensive weapons are not reintroduced into
Cuba;
2. Removal of remaining Soviet forces from Cuba;
3. Preventing Cuba from taking any aggressive
military action against other Caribbean states;
4. Reducing the capabilities of the Castro regime
to direct and support subversion and insurrection
within the other Hemisphere states;
5. Encouraging and supporting any developments within
Cuba that offer the possibility of divorcing
the Cuban Government from its support of Sino-
Soviet Communist purposes;
6. Encouraging and supporting any developments
within Cuba that offer the possibility of
replacing the Cuban Government with a regime
that would break with the Sino-Soviet Bloc,
it being understood that our ultimate
objective is replacement of the regime by
one fully compatible with the goals of the
United States;
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 16
SECRET

SECRET
-3-
7. Maximizing the cost to the Soviet Union of
supporting the Castro regime;
8. Maximizing the political isolation of the
Castro regime from other free world states,
and especially from states of the OAS.
Whenever possible, U. S. actions against Cuba
should be multilateral, preferably based upon
the Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Pact)
or on resolutions adopted by the Organization
of American States. The newly-won hemispheric
solidarity on the Cuban issue should not be
jeopardized by seeking OAS actions of marginal
value and which might split the hemisphere;
9. Being prepared to meet, with the employment of
appropriate U. S. combat elements and/or
logistical support, the wide variety of
military contingencies that may arise from
pursuit of the foregoing objectives; and
10. Producing comprehensive intelligence related
to the above objectives.
Supporting Actions
A. To achieve the foregoing objectives, the
U. S. Government will be prepared to increase
the political economic, psychological and
military pressures, as appropriate opportunities
present themselves or can be created. The
actions listed below are those requiring immediate
approval and would be initiated in the sequence
set forth below. Recommendations for further
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 17
SECRET

SECRET
-4-
actions based upon the re-examination of
existing programs and upon the development
of new programs related to the foregoing
objectives will be forthcoming.
1. In addition to current covert program, such
as intelligence collection, recruitment of
Cuban officials as agents, radio broadcasts,
support of the Cuban Revolutionary Council(CRC)
and other exile group activities and infil-
tration of propaganda materials:
a.
b.
Intensify covert collection
of intelligence within Cuba, especially
within the regime;
Support the efforts of certain Cuban
exiles, who are associated with
the original aims of the 26 of July
Movement and who believe that the
Castro regime can be overthrown from
within in order that they may:
1) cause a split in the leadership
of the regime at the national or
provincial levels; and 2) create a
political base of popular opposition
to the regime; and, 3) secure
intelligence;
c. Assist Cuban exiles in developing a
capability to launch balloons carrying
leaflets and other propaganda materials
from international waters into Cuba.
Launch propaganda balloons after an
operational capability has been
established.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 18
SECRET

SECRET
-5-
2. With respect to the actions listed below,
the results of Mr. Donovan's imminent
negotiations with Fidel Castro for freeing
the 20-odd American prisoners should first
be ascertained. If these actions were taken
before the conclusion of the negotiations
they could jeopardize the release of the
Americans.
3. If these negotiations fail, or when the
prisoners are recovered, proceed on the
following timetable:
4. Inform NATO and OAS twelve hours in advance
of the proclamation of the four point
shipping orders. (The proclamation calls for
the orders to go into effect in five days).
These orders:
a.
Close United States ports to all
vessels of a country whose vessels
engage in carrying arms to Cuba;
b. Close United States ports to any ship
which has carried goods in the Bloc-
Cuba trade within 120 days of the time
it seeks to enter a United States port;
c.
Prohibit all United States flag ships
and all ships owned by United States
nationals or residents from entering
any ports of Cuba and from carrying
any goods bound to or from Cuba; and
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 19
SECRET

SECRET
-6-
d. Prohibit any cargo sponsored by any
department of the United States from
being shipped on vessels owned or
controlled by persons who own or
control vessels engaged in the trade
between Cuba and the Soviet Bloc.
5. At the termination of the U. S. Chiefs of
Mission Conference January 20-30, or at
a later date dependent on the Donovan
mission, Assistant Secretary Martin, or
another representative of the President
will visit the Presidents of Chile, Mexico
and Brazil to convey to them the importance
President Kennedy attaches to maintaining
hemispheric solidarity by their supporting
the following resolutions:
a. An OAS resolution condemning Cuba for
its actions which continue to endanger
the peace, deploring refusal to allow
inspection, condemning the presence of
Soviet troops, recommending continued
surveillance and continued vigilance
against subversive activities, and
terminating the invocation of the Rio
Treaty on the missile crisis, together
with
b. An OAS resolution which would
recommend 1) extension of arms embargo
to all items of trade except food and
medicine (fall back position: extension
of arms embargo to all strategic items);
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 20

SECRET
-7-
2) prohibition of ships of OAS
member states from transportating
embargoed items and deny use of
ports to ships in Bloc-Cuba trade;
3) denial of Soviet over-flights and
transit rights for flights to Cuba;
and 4) a call on other states to
take similar action.
6. After obtaining the maximum possible
support of the key countries of Mexico,
Chile and Brazil, the other OAS
members will be approached in Washington
and in their respective capitals,
simultaneously. It should be possible
for this consultation and OAS action on
the resolutions to be completed within
ten days. Prior to formal COAS approval
of the resolutions, we will inform our
NATO allies of the impending OAS action.
7. At the first NATO meeting after formal
OAS action on the resolutions, we will
request that NATO include Cuba on the
list of countries to which shipment
of COCOM list (strategic) items prohibited.
8. After NATO decision on our COCOM request,
we will seek to get agreement from Free
World industrial nations to prevent
shipping of critical spare parts and
equipment to Cuba, not on the COCOM list.
9. In addition to the four point shipping
resolutions, and action under Section
107 of the Foreign Assistance Act, continue
to press Free World nations to keep their
shipping out of Bloc-Cuba trade.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 21
SECRET

SECRET
-8-
B. Contigency Planning
New opportunities for accomplishing our
objectives may arise either as a result of Bloc
action in other parts of the world; as a result
of aggressive moves (or isolated hostile actions)
by the Castro-Communist regime itself; or as a
result of uprisings or internal conflict within
Cuba.
Our contingency planning, which will be
undertaken immediately, should include preparations
for increased multilateral and/or bilateral
political and economic measures, large scale use of
Cubans who are now inside Cuba; more extensive
air activity including both high and low level
flights primarily directed toward surveillance
and collection of intelligence, and which may also
have the effect of embarrassing the Castro
government and keeping the Castro forces on
continual alert; retaliatory measures, as
appropriate, including the imposition of a
POL blockade; harrassment of Cuban officials in
other countries; severance of communications
to Cuba; major acts of sabotage on shipping
destined for Cuba and on key installations to
Cuba; intensive naval patrols; and, ultimately,
the use of U. S. military force. To the extent
feasible, U. S. military forces employed against
Cuba should be accompanied by U. S. militarily-
trained free Cubans and by the armed forces of
those Latin American nations desirous of
participating in the U. S. effort.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 22
TOP SECRET

SECRET
8
Our programs should be designed to encourage
the Brigade members to melt back into the exile
community and engage in constructive pursuits
pending the liberation of Cuba. We should offer
them some special assistance but not to the extent
that they become a perpetual privileged class
within the community. Presidential action on their
behalf would single them out unnecessarily.
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 23

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
(Prepared for the Meeting of Friday, January 25, 1953, 10 a.m.)
FROM : Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
SUBJECT: Summary of Coordinator's Recommendations
1. U. S. Policy Objectives
The following are the objectives of the U. S. with
respect to Cuba:
a.
Protecting the security of the United States
and the other states of the Organization of
American States by assuring that offensive
weapons are not reintroduced into Cuba;
b. Removal of remaining Soviet forces from Cuba;
c.
Preventing Cuba from taking any aggressive
military action against other Caribbean states;
d. Reducing the capabilities of the Castro regime
to direct and support subversion and insurrection
within the other OAS states;
e.
Encouraging and supporting any developments
within Cuba that offer the possibility of
divorcing the Cuban Government from its
support of Sino-Soviet Communist purposes;
f. Encouraging and supporting any developments
within Cuba that offer the possibility of
replacing the Cuban Government with a regime
that would break with the Sino-Soviet Bloc, it
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 24
SECRET

SECRET
-2-
g.
being understood that our ultimate objective
is replacement of the regime by one fully
compatible with the goals of the United States;
Maximizing the cost to the Soviet Union of
supporting the Castro regime;
h. Maximizing the political isolation of the
Castro regime from other Free World states,
and especially from states of the OAS. When-
ever possible, U. S. actions against Cuba should
be multilateral, preferably based upon the
Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Pact) or on
resolutions adopted by the Organization of
American States. The newly-won hemispheric
solidarity on the Cuban issue should not be
jeopardized by seeking OAS actions of marginal
value and which might split the hemisphere;
i.
Being prepared to meet, with the employment
of appropriate U. S. combat elements and/or
logistical support, the wide variety of
military contingencies that may arise from
pursuit of the foregoing objectives; and
j. Producing comprehensive intelligence related
to the above objectives.
2. Supporting Actions
Actions in support of these objectives and their
time sequence are set forth in the attached paper
entitled "U. S. Policy Toward Cuba." They include the
four point shipping regulations, OAS sanctions, NATO
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 25
SECRET

SECRET
-3-
action to include Cuba on the COCOM list, and approaches
to Free World industrial nations to eliminate sale and
shipment of critical items from their Cuban trade.
Existing programs will be reviewed and further
recommendations made as necessary. Planning for the
variety of contingencies related to Cuba will be undertaken
at once.
In addition to current covert programs such as
intelligence collection, recruitment of Cuban officials,
support of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) and
other exile activities, infiltration of propaganda
materials, and radio broadcasts, the following are
recommended for approval and immediate initiation:
a.
b.
intensified covert collection of intelligence
within Cuba, especially within the regime;
support of Cuban exiles who are seeking to
return the 26 of July Movement to its
original aims.
NOTE: It should be noted that approval of the
foregoing actions may impair our ability
to accomplish objective b. (Removal of
remaining Soviet forces from Cuba) because
taking these actions could provide the
U.S.S.R. with rationale for maintaining
its forces in Cuba. Nevertheless, approval
of the foregoing actions is recommended.
3. Cuban Brigade
Brigade leaders should be induced to accept a
specially tailored civilian and military program for
Brigade members.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 26
SECRET

SECRET
4-
The Brigade should be disbanded as a military unit
and individual members urged to accept civilian training
or to enlist in the existing U. S. military program
for Cubans and join a Brigade reserve unit thereafter.
Our moral obligation would be discharged to the Brigade
members and creation of a privileged class in the exile
community would be avoided.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 27
SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 28

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TOP SECRET
THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
January 23, 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. VANCE
SUBJECT: United States Policy Toward Cuba
Attached is a revision of paper #2 submitted by the
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs for the meeting of the NSC
Executive Committee on the above subject, that has now
been rescheduled for Friday at 4:00 p. m. The revision
consists essentially of what is now denominated as
"ALTERNATIVE I" in the proposed statement of policy
and related courses of action with respect to Cuba, supple-
mented by the insertion of the paragraphe marked in red at
the top of page 3 and on page 7 of the revision. This
supplemental material is derived from portions of the text
of "ALTERNATIVE II" in the original paper.
At luncheon today with Alexis Johnson, I handed him
the attached revision and told him Mr. McNamara's and my
reasons for suggesting the expansion of State's paper to
include the supplemental material referred to above. He,
in turn, will discuss the revision with Mr. Cottrell who will
thereafter be in touch with you. If possible, will you let me
know by noon tomorrow where you and he stand with regard
to the revised paper.
Enclosure
SIGNED
ROSWELL L. GILPATRIC
cc: Mr. McNamara
General Taylor
Mr. Yarmolinsky
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
REGRADING; DOD DIR 5200.10
DOES NOT APPLY
Secuef Control No. 559
2
OF
6
COPIES.
DASH 0031
SECRET COPY
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 29

TOP SECRET
ODOD
DRAFT/23 Jan 63
FROM :
DUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE
Coordinator of Cuban Affairo
SUBJECT: United States Policy Toward Cuba
United States Policy
On November 20, the President set forth the broad guidelines of
United States policy with respect to Cuba in the following wordo:
"As for our part, if all offensive weapons systems are
removed from Cuba and kept out of the hemisphere in
the future, under adequate vérification and safeguards,
and if Cuba is not used for the export of aggressive
communist purposes, there will be peace in the Caribbean.
And, as I said in September, 'we shall reither initiate
nor permit aggression in thic hemisphere'.
"We will not, of course, abandon the political, economic
and other efforts of this hemisphere to halt subversion
from Cuba, nor our purpose and hope that the Cuban people
shall come day be truly free. But these policies are very
different from any intent to launch a military invasion of
the island."
Objectives
are:
Accordingly, the objectives of U.S. policy with respect to Cuba
1. Protecting the security of the United States and the
other states of the Organization of American States
(OAS) by assuring that offensive weapons are not
reintroduced into Cuba;
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 30
1
SECRET

AP SECRET
2. Romoval of remaining Soviet forcoo from Cuba;
3. Preventing Cuba from taking any aggressive military
action against other Caribbean otatoo;
4. Reducing the capabilition of the Castro regime to direct
and oupport oubvorcion and inourrection within the
other OAS otateo;
5. Encouraging and supporting any developmento within
Cuba that offer the possibility of livorcing the Cuban
Government from ito support of Sino-Soviet Communist
purposes or replacing the Government with a regime
which would accomplish thio purpose;
6. Maximising the cost to the Soviet Union of supporting
the Castro rogime;
7. Maximizing the political isolation of the Castro regime
from other free world states, and especially from
states of the OAS. Whenever possible, U.S. actions
against Cuba should be multilateral, preferably based
upon the Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Pact)
or on resolutiono adopted by the Organization of
American States. The newly-won hemispheric
solidarity on the Cuban issue should not be jeopardized
by seeking OAS actions of marginal value and which
might split the hemispher
8. Being prepared to meet, with the employment of
appropriate U.S. combat olomento and/or logistical
support, the wide variety of military contingencies
that may arise from purouit of the foregoing objectives;
and;
NW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 31
2
SECRET

3
SECRET
9. Producing comprehensive intolligence related to the above
objectives.

Our ultimate objective with respect to Cuba remains the overthrow
of the Castro/Communist regime and ito replacement by one compatiblo
with the objectives of the U. S. and, where possible, sharing the aimo
of the Free World. To achieve this objectivo, the U.S. Government
Covere
DoD poychological and military presqureo, an appropriate opportunition procont
Ahla
themselves or can be created, until the Castro/Communist regime in
overthrowa.

Isolating, undermining and discrediting the Castro/Communist
regime through the exercise of all feasible diplomatic, economic,
psychological and covert actions may achieve the immediate objectives
and could create propitious conditiono in Cuba for further advance toward
our ultimatę objective.
Supporting Actions
:
The following actions should be initiated in the sequence set forth
below:
1. Avait reoulto of Mr. Donovan'o imminent negotiation with
Fidel Castro for freeing the 20-odd American prisoners.
Prior aggressive U. S. action could jeopardize their release.

2. If these negotiations fail, or when the prisonoro are recovered,
proceed on the following timetable:
3. Inform NATO and OAS twelve Łcuro in advance of the proclamation
of the four point chipping orders. (The proclamation calls for
tho orders to go into effect in five days). These orders:

close United States porto to all vessels of a
country whoce vessels engage in carrying armo
to Cuba;
b. close United States ports to any chip which has
carried goods in the bloc-Cuba trade within 120 dayo
of the time it seeks to enter a United States port;
